---
subject: The Hospitality Experience
login-link: https://my.griffith.edu.au/
email: jiani.chen3@griffithuni.edu.au
username: s5107626
password: 7921172CjN.
ref-style: APA-7th
requirements-1: 请提前5天完成，如有问题请及时沟通
---
link: [[GU#^210d1e]]

---

# A Moment in Time

The topic of hospitality experience, which in essence demands service quality, is no less important than other parts when engaging the hospitality and tourism industry, and those corporations who would invest in developing in this area would often be more successful than others, in that the economies worldwide are developing into an "era of the experience economy" {Knutson, 2010 #24}. And since hospitality experience is what everyone would prefer, I think Airbnb might be a good topic in the discussion of it.

The Airbnb is quite a game-changer and is a current major player in the hospitality and tourism industry. The technologically and financially innovative disruption the company has brought to the business world has been phenomenal. In spite of the innovation of the "tourism sharing economy", the brilliant hospitality experience it has brought to its users should in itself attract some attention {Sthapit, 2018 #22}. I am myself a user of the company's service, and to be honest I have had one of my best experience one time I use its service, which I would prefer to refer to it as my memorable "moment in time".

About 4 years ago, in 2016, I was travelling to Shanghai, a metropolis in South-East China, for a seminar group meeting that is all about the Liberal Arts and reading classics. Because it is a non-profit organisation founded by two Chinese overseas students graduated from Columbia University, the meeting required us to find accommodations for ourselves. I was intrigued and so I went.

I was browsing through the Internet and apps to find places to stay, but the fact remained that I could not afford to stay in Shanghai, where generally the price of everything is higher than other cities in China, for 7 days in a hotel. I decided to go for guesthouses. Back then apps were not as smart as they are now, and most of the time the guesthouses were offered much less than hotels. I searched online and found Airbnb.

Airbnb was new. At least to me. I ferreted about its tabs and a wonderful guesthouse entered into my view. It was at a quiet community, in the Xuhui District, not far from where the meeting would take place. I contacted the owner of the place, and asked about what I needed, as well as other details such as the neighbourhood and whether it would be noisy at night.

The entire process was smooth. Quite seamless, I should say. The owner was a really kind middle-aged woman. She answered all the questions and details without showing any discomfort or uneasiness, which I thought would be common if some stranger was going to stay in a person's home. That part has already been quite different from my previous experiences when I was going to stay in a hotel. Some hotels, of course, would either charge me for more when I arrived for some reason that was total nonsense, and some would have employees who are quite rude or seem nonchalant to guests.

When I arrived, I went straight to the place where I planned to stay. The woman was not only kind but sincerely welcoming. I could see her joy in her eyes, which I doubted for a second whether it is me who is going to stay, or her. She led me to the room, found for me a chair to sit, and poured for me a cup of coffee that she just made. My mind was saying: "Wow!" It seems no need to talk about what happened in the next 6 days: everyday, the experience was superb. I felt welcomed, recognised, understood and taken care of. Hotels nowadays do not offer those experiences as I think that might be because they do not want to.

I believe the hospitality and tourism industry should understand the fundamental principle to make the business more lucrative: take into account of the hospitality experience. I learnt from this experience that people stay because they "feel" welcomed, instead of "be welcomed". To "feel" should be the same as to "be", but it is strange that how many corporations in this industry have forgot this, and instead focus on the embellishments and frills.

And now I would like to talk about the least memorable hospitality experience.

This story is shorter. In 2018, I was going to see one of my best friends. He was a year older than me, and he lives in Shaoxing, a city in Zhejiang Province, China. It was only one night, I thought, so I went to the nearest hotel from his school.

That is really a cheap hotel. I could feel the pong of rubbish from a building not far from there, so I held my breath and passed through the gate. A young lady was at the counter, so I went directly to her because there was no one else besides me. I asked her whether there were available rooms and she seemed not hearing it. So, I raised my voice, fearing that she might be concentrated on some important issue, and tried to be as polite as I could. The result was the same.

I waited for nearly 2 minutes, until I could not bear the silence and I really needed to have a rest. The woman finally lifted her head, which made it possible for me to see what she was so focused at, and she asked me what I needed. A room, of course! I was yelling in my mind. She started inputting something into the computer, and I glanced at her phone - a tile-matching game!

I find this worrying that, in the hospitality field, limited research has addressed this subject of improving the hospitality experience, which is a direct factor and has strong positive relevance to customer loyalty and corporation-customer relationship {Kandampully, 2017 #25}. I think the industry needs to be more humanistic and future research is absolutely required.
