---
subject: Narrative Writing
login-link: https://online.uts.edu.au/
username: 
password: 
ref-style: 
requirements-1: 写的作业所批判的对象需要是作业要求中的作者
---
link: [[UTS#^41d884]]

---

Requirements:

-   [x] Offer a short critical response explaining why the text is significant in terms of Indigenous culture, history, or politics
-   [x] How the reading of this text has enhanced the understanding of Indigenous storytelling
-   [x] Display the awareness of cultural sensitivity in terms of both reading and writing, and in particular the understanding of the responsibilities to be as contemporary writers

---

Reviewed work: Chapter 1. {Winch, 2019 #513}

*The Yield* is a book written by an Indigenous Australian writer, Tara June Winch, and it is her second book. The first chapter of the book starts with an invitation, in my opinion: "I was born on *Ngurambang* - can you hear it? - *Ngu-ram-bang*. If you say it right it hits the back of your mouth and you should taste blood in your words." Such an invitation is not what we often encounter in our everyday life. The protagonist is making a dictionary of Wiradjuri, to which the author herself belongs. The book is such a memory as well as a vivid depiction of the Indigenous history and culture in that it offers a perspective from languages, English and Wiradjuri.

In the book, it is a common circumstance that English words are translated into Wiradjuri. There are words for houses, places to live, shelters, such as *bimbal*, *ganya*; There are words describing things that are yet to come, *girr*, and many other more. The languages differ to such a extent to which even only murmuring those words would bring readers to a civilisation that stood on a land where there was nature and the harmony between it and human. These words offer a perspective, or a peek, into a land that has been colonised and people on it had been eradicated. There was August, Poppy the protagonist's granddaughter. Poppy, as has been mentioned above, was writing a dictionary. A dictionary is a record, stretching everything from the past and trying to squeeze them into words given translations and meaning. But Poppy knew that he was going to die for pancreatic cancer; he had not much time. So, after hearing about his funeral, August decided to return to the land which she had left for England. And what she found when she arrived was a land that has been long under threat. Their home, once their harbour, now has been called the Massacre Plains - a term that was used to reprise the Indigenous people for defending their own land.

And Winch used such languages, and articulated a work that reveals the true cost of modern "civilisation" - Cultural colonisation, history rewriting and political intervention to prevent the Indigenous from rising again. These are the real cost to build "civilisation".

Reading this book can enhance the understanding of Indigenous writing and storytelling in that it offers a perspective that is simultaneously close and far for readers. It is far, because it is not about our culture; the language and the history, customs and more are distinct. It is also close, because what it writes are what we are familiar with in our life: our family, our language, our dictionaries, our home, etc. And it is the duty of modern writers to create such a contrast yet a compassionate understanding bridging different cultures, since what are preserved should be protected, and what are protected should not only be ours; they should be written and be read. It is hard to combine these two, surely, but that is the only way to respect these heritages.