---
subject: Final Project Part B
login-link: https://login.adelaide.edu.au/cas/login
username: a1757472
password: Lacy9514651792
ref-style: UniSA(Harvard)
requirements-1: 该Essay共10000字，需分不同时段完成
requirements-2: 4.8 先完成 1500 字 Method 主题可见于文件[客户完成的内容-proposal] 请参考老师邮件里的意见 之后的会修改 finish time
---
status: #unsubmitted 
link: [[ADELAIDE#^776414]]

---

Method:2 case study of Li Ziqi and Zhang Dayi
- 1,500 words
- Explain:
	- why you chose these influencers
	- how you will be studying them
	- what questions you are going to ask and answer

---

### Method: 2 Case Study of Li Ziqi and Zhang Dayi

To begin with, online media promotion and influence has become an industry in China, and possibly in the entire world. There are numerous influencers spurred on by their predecessors in the field, and are creating a massive, networked market. And, as it is directly linked with my research project, which aims to investigate the self-branding strategies employed by Chinese media influencers, it would always be a good idea to retrieve valuable and viable information from those people who are at the top of this industry, since they may be regarded as exemplars to deepen the understanding of the industry.

Therefore, the research project should proceed with caution, and that led me to choose these two famous and successful influencers in the Chinese context, one of whom is celebrated worldwide, let alone nationwide. There are, however, several reasons why they are chosen. The most conspicuous, of course, is due to my work. As an influencer myself, the life being in such a role actually has changed, or rather, transformed the way I think about my research question. It could be argued that the job itself is a challenge: One may succeed in the field as long as he or she takes the chance that is mostly in the control of the Goddess of Fortune, though it is constantly contested when it comes to the definition of "success". However, for most influencers, it is already a success to be able to "influence". Such influence is implied by the number of followers or subscriptions, or by the range of audience, or others. In other words, an influencer's scope of influence can be measured qualitatively and quantitatively. Only with such data can my research project proceed as it would become viable.

Secondly, on the ground that there are data that can be analysed, I would be able to list out some of my questions that ask about their posts, especially within one particular week. Influencers wok on the Internet and one of their famous, even notorious, characteristics is that they constantly post on their social media accounts. This would be the second reason why I chose these two influencers. First, their ideas are innovative, disruptive in a business environment that is highly competitive. The audience are selective, when it comes to whether the promotion serves their best interests. The huge number of their subscribers and followers on many social media has , including Chinese ones and channels that could be provided to other countries, have been a living proof of their success, if it is to be defined by the number and range of their followers. And as they are at the top of such an industry, it would provide viable information, too, on my project as to what to expect from future career path for people in the industry. I would like to investigate how they used self-branding techniques to promote their social influence, how these techniques were enveloped in their weekly posts, and how they would define success, both demographically and psychologically, in a sociological sense. And for such questions, I would very much like to carry out interviews to gather relevant information; if unfeasible, I would use online sources, databases, to investigate such questions, since there have been numerous news articles that featured them. Other researches would have had addressed them since they would be exemplars in the field of study.

Furthermore, there are questions that will be addressed and dealt with in this research project. I argue that there are three factors that require researchers to pay heed to, and they are: high quality user generated content (UGC), multi-platform communication (MPC), and e-commerce monetisation (ECM). All of them constitute what I regard as crucial factors for the spread of information that related to the self-branding techniques employed by these two chosen Chinese media influencers.

The idea, UGC, needs to be clarified, though. This research focuses on two exemplars in the online celebrity industry, thereby UGC would be defined as a form of information that is created by the account holder and reposting actions made by followers or people with similar interests. It is the case, indeed, that UGC of some online celebrities, such as Zhang Dayi, would not have been the product of her sole contribution; those posts regarded as UGC would be teamwork. However, in the sense of being a celebrity, it is commonly acknowledged with silent consent by nearly all that the celebrity herself or himself would be regarded not as a person, i.e., a person that is only the personnel of his or her own, but should also have represented people who work for him or her. In this sense, the conflict around the definition of UGC would be resolved, since Zhang Dayi's followers see only her, but this "her" is incorporated into a larger scale in terms of semantics.

MPC, on the other hand, will be addressed in this research project that the idea is itself a combination and consolidation. The idea of multi-platform is due to the fact that there are numerable online platforms that provide people with innumerable chances to work while provide them also with chances to brand themselves. That is, the platforms are commercialising its users. The users, whether content creators or generators, content distributors, content receivers, content reactors, are all in the ongoing loop of self-commercialisation and commercialising others users. The idea behind MPC is more of a fiction that could be metaphorised as that the content creators are corporations while the users are consumers. The consumers are themselves stakeholders, and in such a sense, the corporations, i.e., the content creators must be responsible for their feedback and their interests. That integrates, therefore, the importance of MPC.