---
subject: Strategic Concepts
login-link: https://my.unisa.edu.au/
username: xuyzy027
password: Xuzeli123.
ref-style: UniSA Harvard
requirements-1: 
---
status: #submitted  
link: [[UniSA#^36e28f]]

---

1. Critique of strategic concept of analysis number one, 1000 words
2. Critique of strategic concept of analysis number two, 1000 words
3. One or two paragraphs discussing the usefulness, or otherwise, of applying such concepts of analysis to your chosen company, product, or industry sector etc. that you will examine in Assignment 2, 400 words

# Critique of Strategic Concept of Analysis

## 1. SWOT Analysis 1000 words

The SWOT analysis is, also known as SWOT matrix, a technique that is used, for individuals or organisations, to identify strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats - also as an acronym for them - in nearly all kinds of operations, such as competition, process planning, etc, and is in strong relationship with the idea of strategy. A strategy is proposed when there are certain goals and objectives to be met, and is used to develop a course of action whose engine is futuristic thinking. Therefore, in strategic management, SWOT analysis is constantly used to set a mission, vision, goals, objectives, and more importantly, to attain and sustain competitive advantages. It enables an organisation, in the sense of being in the market, to have a clear vision of its current position, strengths and weaknesses, potential threats and opportunities to achieve its goal where it sets itself to reach.

### 1.1 Strengths

The strengths of an organisation is regarded as its internal elements, or factors, which provides the organisation with all forms of competitive advantages over other organisations. Strengths indicate that the organisation has acquired some advantages in the market over other players, or organisations. The key to understand strengths is to see it from the angle of mission control. Strengths, as competitive advantages, would enable an organisation to accomplish its mission.

Moreover, strengths, as advantages, would imply the attainability and sustainability of the success achieved. In a SWOT analysis that involves the comparison between a given organisation and one competitor in the market, the differences shown in their strengths would indicate if it is possible to attain a certain objective, from which it can be assessed whether this success would be able to continue in the future {Williams, 2014 #802}. Such strengths could be tangible, or intangible, which means that strengths include all factors that are beneficial for an organisation in its operations, such as employee loyalty, huge financial assets, strong social reputation, high quality products, outstanding services, patents, etc.

The process of listing strengths of an organisation is to identify, assess and thus to utilise its competencies. This is one reason why the SWOT analysis is used mostly in strategic planning process, since it allows an organisation to have an overview of how it should implement strategies upon which the organisation build its plans. Strategic planning is such a process in which the organisation gets to know how to acquire more productivity and to know the viable best way in terms of distribution of resources {Gürel, 2017 #801}.

### 1.2 Weaknesses

Weaknesses indicate the possible elements in the internal operations of an organisation that prevents its mission from being achieved, and that limits the organisations potential. The analysis of it would be able to create a list of possibly all the factors that causes the organisation or its operations to be deteriorating. In other words, weaknesses could be seen as the insufficiency of resources that are crucial to achieve a certain goal {Gürel, 2017 #801}. That means weaknesses are unfavourable, undesirable, and are considered more as disadvantages.

When it comes to the organisational level, the weaknesses are potentially harmful to its performances, which leads to possible decrease in its efficiency and effectiveness. That relates to the idea of responsiveness. As there could be no strategy to be implemented, as well as built upon weaknesses, an organisation would not be able to respond with swiftness and effectiveness when there are certain kinds of weaknesses impeding it from action. In this sense, to have knowledge of weaknesses is as crucial as to know strengths, since to understand the current situation of an organisation would empower that organisation to reach a better conclusion of strategic plans.

### 1.3 Opportunities

Unlike strengths and weaknesses, the section of opportunities is more external than it is internal, by which it means opportunities should be regarded as an environmental factor that is imposed upon an organisation, since it operates its business within that environment, and interacts with the environment. Therefore, there must be some opportunities, which may arise when an organisation is able to detect it, and implement its strategies to respond to it, to take the benefit of the condition. That means opportunities are a favourable factor for an organisation.

Opportunities are favourable and may arise at any time or at any place, e.g. from competitions, business policies, regulations, properties enlargement, incorporating, merger, etc. It could even be said that opportunities provide convenience for an organisation, since they would always benefit the organisation if it takes action to grasp them, and may override the organisation's competitive disadvantages, as well as increase the competitive advantages of the organisation.

### 1.4 Threats

Threats are environmental factors, too. While weaknesses stress on the organisation's internal disadvantageous elements, threats tell what the unfavourable situations in which the organisation operates. Situational, external, unfavourable are three main characteristics of threats. Weaknesses can influence the progress of a business project, but threats would impede it, or stop it from happening in the first place {Management Study Guide, 2021 #804}.

Threats would pose unfavourable outcomes on strengths, too. Threats, since they are from the exact environment of an organisation's business operations, would have impact on the organisation's strengths, and stop them from having effects. The organisation might lose its competitive advantage since the environmental threats, such as policy changes, might directly influence the organisation's performance in aspects of productivity and thus the organisation would not be able to produce, which means the competitive superiority would be lost.

## 2. Porter's Five Forces 1000 words

Porter's theory of five forces is also known as the competitive theory, which is a great tool for assessing an organisation's competitiveness, created by Harvard Business School professor Michael Porter. The theory focuses on possible and potential attractiveness as well as the underlying opportunities of increase in profitability. Five factors, as are indicated by the name of the theory "five forces", are included in this analysing tool, and they are:
1. Competitive rivalry,
2. Bargaining power of suppliers,
3. Bargaining power of consumers,
4. Threat of new entrants,
5. Threat of substitution.

All these five factors would potentially pose opportunities as well as threats on an organisation. The analysis foundation is based on the preliminary investigation and understanding of the micro and macro environment in which the organisation practices its business {Porter, 1979 #806}. As a tool for understanding influences from the environment of the forces to the organisation would enable the managerial echelons with a better strategic plan that could add to the organisation's competitive advantages {Cho, 2013 #807}.

### 2.1 Competitive Rivalry

The five forces are measurements, i.e. they evaluate competitors of an organisation in the ever changing market environment. In the sense of intensity, or rigour, the measurements defined by analysing the competitors, or the players that are currently in the market. There would be a massive amount of competitors in the market if the market is at present prospering or has been continuously developing, and these competitors would have promoted their products or services that are similar to the organisations' {Martin, 2019 #809}.

Such a situation is unfavourable, since any commercial organisation would like to have as much market share as possible, and it would cause potential and unforeseeable risks if there are competitors offering same or similar products or services. Such competitive rivalry is created by existing players in the market, which divides the idea from the threat of substitutions that would be addressed later in this analysis. On the other hand, if there is no competitor in the field that could offer the same or similar products or services that the chosen organisation can offer, there then would be such consequences such as the largest market share, tremendous chances to get ahead of every other players, etc {Martin, 2019 #809}.

### 2.2 Bargaining power of suppliers

The bargaining power of suppliers is determined as the degree to which suppliers could have such control over the prices of input for the organisation. It is easy to understand that the organisation is likely to lose profitability if the supplier has high degree of control over the products, since it would be of benefit for the suppliers to raise the price if the supply can only be provided by them. There are several factors that contribute to the bargaining power of suppliers, for example, the supply is limited.

Supply is to be understood as resources, or ingredients. The case is as such: if there is a sort of resource that is in limited supply, or if the supplier has a patent that allows only them to generate such supply, then the resource would be in limited supply for an organisation that is in need of it {Martin, 2019 #809}. For example, the education industry. Universities must pay a huge amount of money to a certain group of publishers for academic journals, and would be only permitted to have limited duration of time to access the journals and the contents. This power of bargaining is totally in the control of the publishers, since the academia would need the journals and universities would break the law or lose academic status if they decide to have access via illegal ways or to not pay for the access.

### 2.3 Bargaining power of consumers

Bargaining power of consumers was defined by the consumers, i.e. they could choose to use other organisation's products or services, since business organisations are suppliers from the perspective of consumers. This idea is taken to be "bargaining power" is due to the fact that an organisation is always in need of, as well as is demanded by consumers. To any organisation, it is an imperative to meet the demand of consumers. The organisation is likely to lose its market share, otherwise. Such power is granted to consumers, as long as the organisation is conducting business in the market place {Isabelle, 2020 #810}.

However, it is the organisation's duty to measure what strategies to implement to empower itself thus to mitigate the bargaining power of consumers. The organisation could consider lowering the prices, for example, to be able to be more competitive in the market and to be able to bargain with consumers, since the products or services the organisation offers is cheaper.

### 2.4 Threats of new entrants

Threats of new entrants are determined by the underlying competitors that may arise. This means that there are to a certain extent the probability of new competitors that come into the already existing market. The first consequence is that the marginal market share would be less than before. However, such threats is dependent on the innate nature of the industry's entry barrier.

In every market, there are three basic elements that are in constant contact with one another: supply, demand, and regulations {Porter, 1979 #806}. If considering the possible relationships among these factors, it could be not too hard to state that if the supply is insufficient, the threats would increase in number since there would be still room for competition; if the demand is insufficient, then there would be less room for new entrants, since competitions are already quite complex. The regulation is to balance these two factors.

### 2.5 Threat of substitutions

The threat of substitutions means the opportunities that consumers could have to supersede the current products or services with alternatives {Porter, 1979 #806}. This force is highly in link with consumers' demand. If there is high demand of a certain product, consumers would invest more to attain it, and thus create the situation that the supply in the market currently is not sufficient. Therefore, consumers would go for other substitutes, so as to attain similar items which may suffice to be similar to the original ones they seek. The Android is an alternative to the iOS, and the Windows system could be substituted by Mac OS or Linux. Threats of substitutions would increase the pressure on an environment.

## 3. Feasibility Analysis 400 words

Although these two identified and investigated analysis tools are highly promoted in the business environment, literally everywhere, it could be argued that there are certain flaws in the SWOT analysis, and in the Porter's five forces analysis, while they are surely of value since they both present a general perspective and are both interaction-based analyses {Gürel, 2017 #801}.

First, they are both based on the current performance of an organisation, which is not fit for the business environment nowadays. With the technological progress, the market is being disrupted at every second. New patents are applied for, new technologies are emerging, and even the ways that people think of purchase is being disrupted by the everyday progress in any field.

Secondly, the SWOT analysis and five forces are outdated in the sense of they are mostly summaries, instead of analysis that would provide viable solutions. The analysis are sets of observations in which some might be subjective and with prejudice. Therefore, the strategy plan that they offer might not be viable in terms of details, and not be feasible in temrs of accountability {Charis, 2019 #803}.