

> Once when Jacob was cooking a stew, Esau came in from the field, and he was famished. Esau said to Jacob, “Let me eat some of that red stuff, for I am famished!” (Therefore he was called Edom.) Jacob said, “First sell me your birthright.” Esau said, “I am about to die; of what use is a birthright to me?” Jacob said, “Swear to me first.” So he swore to him, and sold his birthright to Jacob. Then Jacob gave Esau bread and lentil stew, and he ate and drank, and rose and went his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright.
> _**Genesis 25:29-34**_

This part of the Bible tells of a story where a man in starvation sold out his birthright in exchange of food. The story is sad but still make us compassionate and feel sorry for Esau. However, without regarding what his birthright is, the story is itself a metaphor; a motif that later became a common theme in art, such as in Mattia Bortoloni's _Esau selling his birth right_ (1716), and Mattias Stomer's painting of the same title (c. 1640). And a metaphor was thereafter because of the story named as **"a mess of pottage"** meaning a meal of lentil stew.

A mess of pottage is, according to Wikipedia, something immediately attractive - such as the pottage, but of **little value taken foolishly and carelessly** in exchange of something more distant and perhaps less tangible but immensely more valuable - compared with one's birthright. What it talks about is the shortsightedness and misplaced priorities.

Most of us, of course, do not think that we in our lives would make such stupid and shortsighted decisions. We value our birthright, we think, for example, freedom. But _Do we_?

Tik Tok, Instagram, Twitter, basically all kinds of social media, tabloids, gossips, the over attention on celebrities (even fake ones)... The world is so wrapped up in propaganda and junk information and sadly we seem to have no way out.

A time for change, for sure.

### Great Books Disappeared

The problem is quite obvious and the reason too. Great books had disappeared, not just in the West but also from the Easterners' lives. Classics, once admired, adorned, worshiped, and (least of all) read, are now gone, and probably are abandoned on the shelves. The values and ideas in them are now seen as boring, ancient, and outdated.

The truth is... they are not. The teachings of them are crucial, since they otherwise wouldn't have survived over centuries and centuries. The next question is then: will they ever survive longer, for now, or in the near future?

And the most ingenious historian has now put down his pen.

### Why do we read great books?

Because a man should be familiar with the masterpieces of his tradition if he wants to be "educated". This is most certainly a standard, but by who was it made?

It is made by history. Great books have endured so long a time that is composed of innumerable rises and falls till this day. They were there for a reason. The reason was deeply rooted in the the understanding that no man was educated unless he was acquainted with the masterpieces of his tradition. What's more, they are available to everyone but known to so few. Though everyone is able to discern what are great books, we should ask ourselves the question: What great books will we leave for the next generation?

Maybe we will leave them our great books as a toolkit. Unlike those nowadays so-called "once and for all" books, great books are never a panacea. They in fact provide their readers with better understanding of the world by offering the mindsets contained in them.

See, it's never about what were written in them. Information gets outdated after all.

But how they were conceived of is what really matters, since by incorporating those ways of thinking into our cognitive process would in large measure lead to the essence of things because they had been proven by these books themselves.

That is, although these books will not solve our problems, they can help it. To be frank, one basic constituent of intelligence is marked by its retrieval of past knowledge, in the sense of which we should be regarded as morons by the fact that we stopped learning from our wise predecessors.