---
subject: Tourism and Hotel Economic Analysis
login-link: https://my.griffith.edu.au/
username: s5153464
password: Xiaoxiaoti1997629
ref-style: 
requirements-1: 需要完成 1000 字 Analysis of economic reports
---
link: [[GU#^9171b3]]

---

You should consider the following questions in your analysis:
- [x] Describe the changes that have been seen in domestic travel in Australia for the year ending September 2020, compared to the previous 12 months (visitors, nights and overnight spend). (2 marks)
- [x] Why are the percentages changes different in the different indicators? Interpret the changes based on your understanding of micro economic concepts covered in lectures. (2 marks)
- [x] Which state/territory was most affected in terms of the above indicators (visitors, nights and overnight spend)? Which was least affected? Why do you think this is the case? (2 marks)
- [x] Compare the change in percentage of visitors (year ending September 2020) with the total staying in commercial accommodation. What does this indicate? (2 marks)
- [x] Compare changes in interstate and intrastate travel. Have these been affected differently? Why? (2 marks)
- [x] How did transport usage change both absolutely (numbers) and relatively (percentages)? Why? (2 marks)
- [x] How did the pattern of expenditures on different items change both absolutely and relatively? (2 marks)
- [x] Compare visitor expenditure in regional areas with major cities? Generally speaking which were most negatively affected? Use Queensland as an example. Why do you think this is the case? (2 marks)
- [x] What do you expect to happen to domestic tourism indicators in 2021? Explain why with reference to economic concepts discussed in class to date. (4 marks)

---

With the impact brought by the COVID-19 pandemic which has inflicted the entire world, the Australia has also seen a long-term economic impact the pandemic in 2020, in the tourism industry. Opening by bushfires, 2020 has seen the dramatic drop economically in terms of domestic travel, comparing to the statistics in 2019. With the number of visitors dropped to 80.3 million, there has been a decrease of about 34% between the last two year endings; overnight travels have reduced 42% at the end of 2020, and the overnight spend had also accordingly seen a reduction of 53%. Such declines were not common, comparing to previous trip years. However, they could be understood. The reasons would be largely contributed by the COVID-19 pandemic impact on the microeconomics in different states, accompanied by the policies they took in 2020 to prevent the widespread of the virus, such as city lockdown. Based on the microeconomics model, the main reason would be the decrease in demand. The demand curve has seen a decline in 2020 in terms of tourism. Tourism is activities and related industries in terms of spending leisure time. Domestic travel includes both interstate and intrastate travel, and people carry out such activities for holiday, visiting friends and family (VFR) or business. But since there has been the pandemic, with the decrease in terms of business in the context of macroeconomics, the microeconomics was influenced and thus reacted negatively as well.

The statistics has shown that Victoria was the most affected in terms of all the factors mentioned above, while the least affected one is Tasmania. Victoria was the most affected because it had a second wave of the COVID-19 which curbed its self-salvage, both in terms of the state and national level, in that the second wave of COVID-19 also caused its continuing lockdown. The understanding should also be made that Tasmania was the least affected because there has been some changes in policies as to borders among states, closures, restrictions, lockdowns, etc. These changes in policies have helped those states to lift themselves up from the devastating effect of the pandemic, and it could thus be understood why there had even been uplifting in statistics of the above indicators in Tasmania.

There has also been change in terms of visitors and their ways of accommodation. Statistics show that the number of business visitors have dropped from 55.543 million to 34.598 million, a decrease of 37.709%. Since their purpose of travel is to do business, those hotels, motels, and other types of resorts have seen drastic decline in revenue with 36.109% due to the overall decline in traveller numbers. This suggests, however, that the microeconomics and local economy of Australian states were largely in parallel with tourism especially tourism for business, and there would need to be policies implemented to traverse this trend since carrying out business online would not help those local accommodation companies to revive.

However, in comparing the changes in interstate and intrastate travel, it could be found that the visitor nights with regards to intrastate travel had not dropped too much, which could be even regarded as a minor periodical wave, but the interstate travel had decreased for nearly 50 percent. This indicates that there has not been enough regulation in respects of intrastate regulation. There would be a similar decrease in intrastate tourism as well as interstate tourism, otherwise.

Queensland is an example that visitor expenditure has not changed much in 2o20. Queensland has experienced nearly no decrease in trips, and even had met an increase of 10 percent in intrastate overnight trips spending. This is the case is that Queensland has developed many of its industries that could be still working remotely, i.e., without having to go to the workplace. The visitor expenditure changed much because Queensland was not investing too much and depend on too much on tourism. The agriculture should also be incorporated when analysing the situation of Queensland not being affected too much when comparing with other small cities, such as Victoria. Queensland as one of the major cities, also relying upon agriculture like Victoria does, has developed its way of business. Where there is agriculture, there is transportation, because it would be impossible to develop agriculture if there is not sufficient methods of transportation. And, therefore, Queensland, comparing with Victoria, would be an ideal place to go when there is no other options, that is, to go to other cities or states.

The tourism industry would, however, still face increasing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, in 2021, with more challenges both interstate and intrastate, due to that the COVID-19 has been continually controlled and there need to be some strategies to revive the economy, to which tourism can contribute much. There would be some changes in the microeconomics because there will be policies made to improve the business environment for the corporations on the micro level. The transport usage has dropped in terms of all aspects, including air transport, self-drive vehicles, and other transportation, both absolutely and relatively. This fits the pattern of expenditures on different items, both absolutely and relatively, too. These indicate an overall non-confidence of people when it comes to transportation and accommodation; it would be safer if one is not in contact, whether directly or indirectly, with others, whether it is about transport or ways of staying. And when considering other industries that are linked with tourism, it is no doubt that those industries that rely heavily on logistics and distributions, such as the retail industry, the food industry, would face soaring challenges since the market is shrinking due to the scaling down trend of demand which inflicts supply chain resilience as a whole.