---
subject: Ethics and Governance
login-link: https://www.rmit.edu.au/students
username: s3701994
password: 13296856798YiYi
ref-style: 
requirements-1: reading 请登录阅读
---
link: [[RMIT#^7d2841]]

---

Requirements:

 

- [x] **Clarify & respond**: Student grasps the purpose of the assignment and fulfils the assignment requirements, taking into account ethical, cultural, social and team (ECST) issues associated with management and organisation.
- [x] **Find & generate**: Student finds relevant information and generates data/ideas using appropriate methodologies of inquiry.
- [x] **Evaluate & reflect**: Student critiques and determines the credibility of sources, information, data and ideas. Student makes their own research and analytic processes visible and correctly attributes their sources.
- [x] **Organise & manage**: Student organises and structures information & ideas to reveal patterns, themes, and insights.
- [x] **Analyse & synthesise**: Student analyses information/data critically and synthesises knowledge to produce coherent and contextualised understandings of management and organisation issues.
- [x] **Communicate & apply**: Student applies their understanding to management and organisation and capably conveys an awareness of the implications of their analysis, heeding ethical, cultural, social and team (ECST) issues.

1. Why you think the paragraph is significant.
2. Why you chose the paragraph, i.e. what does it indicate.
3. Critically analyse the selected paragraph against the ethics perspectives.
4. Critically analyse the selected paragraph for normative or non-normative approach to study of ethics.

---

### Gupta

1. "Ethics is a matter of values that guides how to behave.  Ethics is the basis on which governance can succeed. These are standards that can be applied to personal behaviour.  Ethics distinguishes between the 'right' and the 'wrong' ways for providing the direction to our behaviour in personal and professional life" (Gupta, 2019, p. 6).

The paragraph illustrated the author's point of view from a deontological perspective. Deontology focuses on what people should or ought to do, rather than on what people want to do or what the effects are {Alexander, 2020 #186}. In this paragraph the author stresses the function ethics performs is to "guide", in context of managerial ethics and corporate governance, which further directs the understanding of ethics towards ethics appraised with principles, rules, the prerequisite rights and wrongs as opponents. In this point of view, the consequence of human behaviours are not considered in the first place, neither are the human desires justified. In the case of business, the sustainability is what actually counts. Sustainability, however, requires some basic rules to be followed, such as regulations on how to behave in the workplace which later transforms into certain standards and after all, ethics. In Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reporting, too, corporations need to report on their CSR expenditure, which is now considered a standard to be followed by any company who wants to build a positive social image {Dhaliwal, 2014 #15}. As a matter of fact, CSR reporting contributes to the overall increase in corporation's social image and capital value, which in return empowers the process of following such codes of behaviours, which can be summarised as from a deontological perspective.

2. "The goals of the Promoters and Directors being the 'long term sustainable wellbeing' of the organisation. It should be noted that 'ethics and corporate governance' are not just moral or compliance issues.  In the long term they are essential behavioural traits for all the members of the organisation which help to strengthen the organisation's 'brand equity' and help ensure stable and sustainable growth" (Gupta, 2019, p. 12).

In this paragraph, the author pointed out the roles that Promoters and Directors should play in organisations as managerial members. Deontology argues that human behaviours should be assessed by the principles followed instead of consequences {Alexander, 2020 #186}. The author thus indicates that why managers' deontological ideas and practices would affect the corporations, which is the corporation's sustainable growth {Porter, 2013 #111}. Sustainability requires positive feedback loops within corporations that extends their longevity. And for creating such a loop, the overall management should be after a long-term goal, which states that all management decisions should, once approved, adhere to the core principles the corporation follows. All decisions should only be passed on the ground that they are ethically proper, culturally adaptable, socially acceptable and approved in team to create a norm within the organisation. For example, 

3. "Honesty is expected and is required to maintain trust. Competence is also a prerequisite of trust.  Customers rely on sales people as sources of information concerning new and existing products and services.  Sales people also must be able to provide information regarding shipping alternatives and arrival dates.  An incompetent sales person who cannot provide the needed information is of no value; trust becomes a moot point" (Gupta, 2019, p. 13).

The author discussed the notion of "trust" in this paragraph, insisting that both honesty and competence are to be expected in the business environment and in the market. Current research shows that trust are to be built in that they offer a bridge between organisations and individuals, being employees or consumers {Gangi, 2019 #113}. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), for example, is one of the many activities corporations conduct in order to contribute to the world,, because of which the majority trust the corporations {Sheehy, 2015 #115}. It is a win-win for both parties in the market. And as CSR requires, too, honesty and competence determine the reliability of the CSR report.

4. "Ethical issues take centre stage in an organisation today as managers, executives and employees face increasingly complex decisions. Most of these decisions are made in an organisation environment with different value systems, moral philosophies, competitive pressure and political ideologies, all of which provide ample opportunities for misconduct and compromise on ethical values" (Gupta, 2019, 17).

The paragraph introduced the varieties of organisations and states that there is an opportunity in every adversity. The author dissected what organisations should do in conditions where ideas differ. These approaches to be taken are of great value from different perspectives, such as from deontology and from teleology. In business operations, managers should, the author argues, take care of operational problems in terms of their inherent goodness, and the principles they followed. If the end result is not favoured, the cause of it would not be, either, and it is the latter that is more important, since we should, again, deontologically, learn from history and try not repeating them any longer.

### Hiekkataipale

1. "In this paper, we follow the virtue-based theory of business ethics (Solomon 1992) which, instead of emphasising an individualistic view of ethical behaviour in organisations, posits that belonging to a community affects people’s moral agency" (Hiekkataipale, 2017, p. 147).

The authors in this paragraph exclaimed their study approach: virtue ethics. Virtue ethics, as one of the major approaches in normative ethical theories, points to the virtue as the central basis of ethics, whereas consequentialism regards the consequences and deontology stresses on duties as fundamental {Hursthouse, 2018 #190}. In defining these the authors clear out the way to delve in to more detailed research on middle managers' moral agency.

2. "On the other hand, sufficient virtues were connected to the experience of successfully handling ethical problems, learning, a sense of self-satisfaction and selfefficacy. This indicates that a virtuous ethical culture can create the potential for effective moral agency when responding to ethical problems" (Hiekkataipale, 2017, p. 157).

The authors in this paragraph commented on their research findings, suggesting that there are a strong correlation among virtues, in the sense of moral character, and the moral agency when it comes to ethical problems or glitches in the workplace, as well as the management sector within corporations. The approach is differentiated from deontology and teleology is that virtue ethics centralises virtue as the foundational factor in contributing human behaviour, and in this case, workplace behaviour. The significance of this finding is about the efficacy, efficiency, and effectiveness (3Es) in the workplace and how to promote them, and this finding based on investigation and interviews are great proof for a normative study of ethics.

3. "The results of this study on the significance of the virtues of discussability, transparency and sanctionability lead us to posit that both middle and upper managers prefer to avoid public talk about ethics, or visible rewards and sanctions, possibly to sustain their and others’ organisational ‘‘face’’, and organisational harmony" (Hiekkataipale, 2017, p.157).

This paragraph strengthened the authors point of view, as a summary, by categorising the contributing factors into discussability, transparency, and sanctionability. These three factors contribute to managers, whether middle or upper, not acting upon ethics or their own moral grounds, such as public talking about ethics, for a misconception that this would "save face" for their organisation and keep a pretension of false harmony. This, however, also indicates that the authors' points of view are from a virtue ethics background, since they do not define, comment, or judge on the outcomes of these behaviours, neither do they centralise the results or causes of actions in a context-specific way.

4. "From the point of view of recruitment, organisations should try to gather information about the moral character and behaviour of applicants instead of focusing purely on evaluations of their performance or competence (Moberg 2006). Since, as shown also in this study, people can shape and improve the nature of their social systems, such as the prevailing ethical culture (Bandura 2001), a virtuous organisational culture can be better sustained by recruiting virtuous moral agents" (Hiekkataipale, 2017, p. 158).

The authors suggest managers in large organisations in this paragraph to take a stance of understanding employees' moral character in deciding recruitment. This paragraph, again, centralises virtue instead of competence, which is one of the cause or duty of being recruited, or performance, which is the outcome after being recruited and which naturally becomes a moral duty - to perform well and better is an ongoing requirement {Freeman, 2010 #108}.


### Christensen

1. "The literature that has focused on decision making under uncertainty, threat, or crisis is nearly unanimous in finding that under such conditions, there is a tendency for decision making to move to the top of the hierarchy in the organization (Dutton, 1986; Greening & Johnson, 1997; Hermann, 1963; Staw, Sandelands, & Dutton, 1981). Constriction of decision making to the top levels of the organization tends to create a small group of homogeneous people who have access to fewer perspectives than when a more heterogeneous group is assembled (Greening & Johnson, 1997; Smart & Vertinsky, 1977)" (Christensen & Kohls, 2003, p. 334).

The authors herein explicitly make clear their theoretical grounds for this article and legitimise it, after giving clear definition as to crisis and decision making processes are concerned and included in business operations. After setting up the consensus on theories, the authors concluded the phenomenon that is prevalent in nearly every organisation to transfer the dictating power to upper echelons, and that this happens due to a variety of factors. It thus becomes evident that the authors are employing the non-normative approach to investigate human behaviour, i.e., what the driving forces are, of managers' decision making processes and outcomes, who are of middle and upper levels.

2. "Under conditions of crisis when cognitive limitations take hold and decision making shifts to a small group or a single decision maker at the top, those stakeholders likely to gain the attention of the decision maker will be those with power to influence. This will likely be the case whether the stakeholder’s claim is legitimate or not, and even to the point that legitimate stakeholders’claims are not attended to" (Christensen & Kohls, 2003, p. 335).

The authors hereby point out one of the key management problems occur at workplace: the unintended ignorance of legitimate but uncritical stakeholders by decision makers at the top due to cognitively restrained resources and information handling, which is a highly important contributing factor of unfavourable decision making, thus it proves again the authors were adopting a stance of virtue ethics. Meanwhile, it is crucial that managers realise the participation of all stakeholders should be valued and assessed {Saravanamuthu, 2018 #191}. Because whether it is a small or a big decision, it is going to affect all participants in the corporate systems. The complexity is prescribed by the market and the environment a corporation is currently in and should not be ignored {Idowu, 2014 #116}.

3. "Crisis management techniques can help ensure that decisions made under crisis conditions are more ethical. The literature suggests that organizations should plan for crisis to minimize the effects of surprise (Pearson & Mitroff, 1993)" (Christensen & Kohls, 2003, p. 346).

The current literature in the management of crisis and hazards are not mostly touching upon the subject of ethics, but on profitability and sustainability, and even the latter is more or less value related {Bose, 2020 #3}. Though the latter could be a sign that ethics is being considered in terms of protection of the natural environment and the preservation laid up as provisions, they still fail to gather up the idea that crises may occur in random. Chaos is by definition unpredictable, and what are concluded from data analysis are but approximation, and there are wider grounds still for research {Wang, 2015 #19}. What the authors did here are to base a theoretical foundation for this kind of research. The ideation of crisis management may or may not wipe out problems or serve as a panacea, but it provides corporations and any stakeholders who are relevant to that situation a starting point, and that is a more humanistic one.

4. "A second approach would be to use laboratory simulations. Both computer and behavioral simulations are promising. In a computer simulation, subjects would be asked to make periodic decisions in running a company, similar to some strategic management simulations currently available (see Weber, 1997, for example). Subjects would be able to inquire about and find information related to the decisions. A crisis event could be inserted into the decision stream, and inquiries and decisions would be observed under different conditions. Also, simulations could be observed through use of a “management team” that communicated via archived e-mail messages. Decision-making processes and changes in team dynamics could thus be observed and analyzed" (Christensen & Kohls, 2003, p. 352).

The authors here addressed computer programs and their possible usage in studying business and ethical decision making in that environment. The wonderfulness lays in the adoption of simulation, i.e., using computer programs to imitate complex decision making environment. However, the processes should be attended by human beings since they are the ones making real life decisions. Thus, in studying management, and especially crisis management, as to how to make more ethical decisions, the authors here used the streamline method via email messages to investigate the interactions in the communication systems, as well as the business systems. It is far more than simplification; it is abstraction. And since models are to be used universally, models should be as abstract and meanwhile as viable as possible. Based on a stance of virtue ethics, the proposal is legitimate since it is a more complex but also more realistic model of decision making.


### Reddy

1. "For instance, the Chinese code requires that a listed company respects the legal rights of banks and other creditors, employees, consumers, suppliers, the community and other stakeholders. Further, that while maintaining the listed company’s development and maximising the benefits of shareholders, the company shall be concerned with the welfare, environmental protection and public interests of the company in which it resides, and shall pay attention to company’s social responsibilities (China Securities Regulatory Commission, 2001). Similarly many other countries (India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Thailand, the Republic of Korea) have recognised the idea of stakeholders in their codes and principles while Singapore and Malaysia only stress the social importance of corporations without emphasising stakeholders in the context of governance (Cheung and Chan, 2004)" (Reddy, 2009, p. 19).

The author in this paragraph provides an example to exemplify the situations, definitions, and the current practices of corp0rate governance which is in the framework of corporate ethics and others of the kind related to the workplace. The point here is thus defined from a principle-based perspective, i.e., deontological. The understanding should be formerly made clear that when addressing practices specific to countries, the author focuses on the major differences occur in terms of stakeholders and social responsibilities, which later appears as the distinction that happens in Singapore where only corporate social importance are stressed without the context of stakeholders' importance. Such a comparison are to be reassessed with deeper and more thorough investigations. If considering international corporations who have to play different roles and abide by different laws in home and host countries respectively, the social responsibilities that those corporations hold would vary not only in scale but in essence {Bai, 2019 #109}. However, this article mainly addresses the Asian countries in order to provide a stance of Asia.

2. "It is appropriate to note that the idea of a company as a legal entity was drawn from Europe during the early seventeenth century and particularly highlighted by the East India Company (Robins, 2006). Earlier to that, the concept of a company as a juridical entity was un-known to the region. However, there is sufficient evidence to show that traders from Asia had merchant guilds which operated as a form of a corporation with its own rules and regulations (Jain, 2001)" (Reddy, 2009, p. 19).

In treating a company as a legal entity, the law from Europe engenders a new form of existence, whereby a collective such as a corporation is considered as a single in the sense of being regarded as performing duties and of acting as a citizen - that is one of the approximation of a "legal" entity which prescribes a person or a citizen's responsibilities and actions. Such a view is embedded with the idea of prescribing "should be" and "should do" to corporations, demanding that these corporation should follow social as well as legal regulations even when these regulations are not explicitly defined and articulated. Thus it is possible to argue that this is a view from the side of deontology on the specturm where it is in parallel with other doctrines.

3. "Stakeholdership, in their context, is primarily seen as ‘‘duty’’ rather than as a value, policy or philosophy. The effort is directed towards the balancing and harmonising of relationships – the heart of Asian tradition – rather than towards asserting one’s rights" (Reddy, 2009, p. 20).

The author is quite perceptive in this regard to identify the difference between Eastern and Western views in terms of harmony, duty, and right. The understanding of harmonising relationships serves as key values in family owned corporations in the Asian countries, and as the word itself indicates, "harmonising" means it is always on the loop of self-construction in a way much similar to "modus vivandi" as a living organism which contributes to the overall dynamics in corporations. Quite opposite is the Western term of rights regarding core values of stakeholder responsibility not as duties of corporations but as admitting and asserting stakeholders' rights, which could be proven by the news report that stressed upon people's birthrights instead of government or other legal entities' duties {ABC News, 2012 #119}. This point 0f view derives from the core of Western culture and should be considered and transferred in the Eastern corporations and it is exactly the case.

4. "There is no denying that there are still concerns in Asia – often supported by anecdotal evidence rather than by proper surveys – about excessive and subjective attention to select stakeholders by SOEs; about most unlisted companies not fully complying with the spirit of the legal requirements relating to stakeholders under conditions of lax enforcement; about many Boards placing their managers and employees far higher among stakeholders even as they pursue a minimalist policy as far as the environment is concerned; about large multi-nationals – both from Western and Eastern hemispheres – not applying the same stakeholder standards in host countries; about competence gaps among directors relating to the logic of stakeholders and CSR; about relatively weak institutions and market forces that offer no significant incentives for corporate social responsibility even as finances flood the markets. However, it is evident that due to the dominance of state-ownership and the trust-based relationship-oriented paternalistic approach among family-controlled corporations, there is a discernible overall tilt to stakeholders. The stakeholder approach is demonstrated more by the newly internationalising firms due to the expectations of international financiers and the increasing competition for input (such as human resources) and output (discerning consumer) markets" (Reedy, 2009, p. 25).

The author here made comparisons still on the theoretical framework that the Eastern way has its reason to be at where it is. The stakeholder approach in ethical corporate management could be validated by examples from international corporations, and it is no doubt why this happens: to combine the two systems into one unifying subject, which has been what the Eastern philosophy and ethical doctrines try to do. One rule doesn't suffice; multifaceted regulation exceeds. The end result of international values would need to be backed up by moral consensus from a deontological point of view, as are indicated by the author in this paragraph.