---
subject: Contexts of Architectural History
login-link: https://swinburne.instructure.com/
username: 102847827@student.swin.edu.au
password: Xy83320414!
ref-style: Chicago
requirements-1: 可以看下前面几个 blog 其他同学怎么写的（需登录）
---
link: [[SUT#^6202e9]]


-   Why do humans feel the need to be connected to divinities?
-   Sacred space and spaces of death are closely related. What are the different ways they come together in our examples?
-   Why do you think they are so closely related?
-   We have looked at many spaces of ritual across many different places and religions. What are some of the things they have in common?
	-   Eg. geometry, elevation etc.
-   How do they differ?

To be connected to divinities is to try perfecting the entire human race. Humans are, from the beginning of time, searching for something greater than themselves, and they called them "divinities". In my humble view, the reason for this seeking is the same as inventing divine entities such as angels. The image we have of an "angel" is influenced by religious symbolism, for the most part. The image of an angel is, by tradition, itself abstraction of qualities, and also concretisation of this abstraction.

What should be mentioned here is, although both are "beings", that humans are corporeal, but angels, and other celestial beings like divinities, are incorporeal {McDougall, 2016 #153}. This explains why death and sacredness are so strongly related, because they only make sense when being incorporeal.
 
Common traits shared by various ritual related buildings around the world {Andrea, 1997 #152}. They are all enclosed by either circles or squares, etc. The Temple of Heaven in Beijing, China, for example. The Chinese way of life stresses more on stability, stemmed from the concern for the future, explained in architecture by the shape of circle and square. This leads to the idea of provision. Provision means save things for the future, usually foods. Interestingly, this word "provision" shares the same root as "Providence", a similar term to God. It suggests, if juxtaposed, that man the race, by laying up provisions, evolves to the level of God. Although there are differences between styles around the world, such as the enclosing shapes and purposes of building them.