---
subject: Griffith University
login-link: https://my.griffith.edu.au/
username: s5196241
password: Ltyx5316
ref-style: 
requirements-1: 客户专业 international tourism and hotel management
requirements-2: 职业和公司可以自行选择 客户的简历信息已更新
---
status: #submitted  
link: [[GU#^dd4fb2]]

---

### Motivational Interest

Why did I choose this particular position to apply for?

---

I have chosen the job as a senior people partner whose role in the corporation is to develop and implement the Human Resource (HR) related policy, which also supports business strategies and which enables future growth as well as which grants long term success for the company, generally speaking. This position is provided by the Intrepid Group Limited (IGL), a public unlisted company that is locally owned in Australia, and who is meanwhile an international corporation that operates in the global tourism industry. The company currently employs nearly 1.2 thousand people globally, including staff and leaders, and has set its Head Office in Melbourne. Owned by its co-founders, the company has allied with other international travel corporations and has spread its value chain over the world. This job that they offered is published and advertised via the online recruitment platformed named "SAP SuccessFactors", and the position would be based in Australia. In the meantime, the position is a full-time one, and require expertise and more importantly, experience in the field.

There are several reasons why I paid heed to this job. According to the description provided by IGL that illustrates the potential employees for which the company is looking, the employee for this position should take responsibilities for "the development and implementation of HR policy", which is exactly in match with in some characteristics of my ideal future job. Furthermore, I have been Head of the Public Relations Department of the Chinese Student Association of Griffith University, and this experience has enabled me with stronger abilities in terms of stress coping, socialising, and maintaining healthy relationships. Being Head of this department has also equipped me with a broader view upon strategy management and its implementation.

The company's vision is also matching my personal vision. The company states that "We believe our strength as a team is in our differences; and we are about as diverse as they come", which suggests that the company promotes diversity and inclusiveness. These characteristics of a company are what I have been searching for, and are crucial to me as my visions of the world has always been around diversity and creativity generated by it. The position would allow me to explore both my external and my internal world, and by providing such a chance it would assist me with great confidence and motivation on my career path.

What made me interested in the company, IGL, is also that the company promotes sustainable tourism. The company was approved to be certified as a B Corp in Australia, which stresses upon actions that a company has devoted to sustainability, and which focuses on a list of a company's responsibilities to create benefits to all its stakeholders, instead of only to its shareholders. This moves and motivates me, especially in such a world where the COVID-19 pandemic is still spreading. The tourism industry has been lashed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and, in the case of Australia, the 2020 bushfires created a risk situation that impacted its value chain. And, as one person on this planet, I believe it is our duty to develop a more sustainable industry, and I would very much like to be a part of it.

### Cover Letter      

2 Como Cres, Southport QLD 4215
06 April 2020

INTREPID GROUP HEAD OFFICE
Level 7,
567 Collins Street,
Melbourne VIC,
3000 Australia

Dear Hiring Manager,

I wish to apply for this position as a senior people partner with Intrepid Travel under the company Intrepid Group Limited that was advertised on SEEK. I have attached my resume here with the letter, which would tell you that I am currently upon graduation from Griffith University this April, with a Bachelor degree of International Tourism and Hotel Management. There in the attached resume listed my skills and my previous experiences in this field of work, which would support me in this role as a senior people partner. I am exceedingly keen to be able to work in this company, and specifically, in Intrepid Travel.

I noticed that there are several depictions of requirements for the potential employees in the job description section on SEEK. After reading them, I was able to assume that you are seeking people with not only experiences or expertise, but has also an international working background. I believe I would be well suited for such a position, since my past working experiences have been across the ocean: I had worked in China, Thailand, Malaysia, and is now working in Australia. The other reasons why I believe I would be an ideal employee for you would be from my abilities to keep myself motivated as well as flexible. The past experience in tourism industry has also in other ways enabled me to face problems and risks with conscientiousness and diligence. The "skills and experiences" section in your advertisement for recruitment mentions, too, that you are looking for people with outstanding writing and verbal communication as well as interpersonal skills, for which I believe I am qualified. From the "work experience" section, you could see that I have been practising my communication skills both literarily and verbally. I love being around people and being in an environment that requires agility.

I really hope that we could arrange an interview through which we could discuss my application, and I would be able to present myself as an asset of value for the company, providing more evidence that is required for the hiring process. I am excited to be hearing back from you, my future manager.

Thank you for considering my application and I am looking forward to be meeting with you and the company.

Yours sincerely,
Tianyu Luo

