---
subject: Final Project Part B
login-link: https://login.adelaide.edu.au/cas/login
username: a1757472
password: Lacy9514651792
ref-style: UniSA(Harvard)
requirements-1: 该Essay共10000字，需分不同时段完成
requirements-2: 4.8 先完成 1500 字 Method 主题可见于文件[客户完成的内容-proposal] 请参考老师邮件里的意见 之后的会修改 finish time
---
status: #unsubmitted 
link: [[ADELAIDE#^776414]]

---

Method:2 case study of Li Ziqi and Zhang Dayi
- 1,500 words
- Explain:
	- why you chose these influencers
	- how you will be studying them
	- what questions you are going to ask and answer

---

### Method: 2 Case Study of Li Ziqi and Zhang Dayi
 
 As an online influencer myself, this project is vital with its own merit. Li Ziqi and Zhang Dayi are two great influencers on the Internet, followed by many around the world, especially in the fields where people advocate paying efforts for better quality of life. Li Ziqi, who is herself a successful Internet celebrity, has been with great effort promoting Chinese culture to which her contents are related {Wang, 2020 #842}. Zhang Dayi, on the other hand, works mainly in the fashion industry, with herself being a fashion entrepreneur and designer. The contents these two celebrities created have inspired their followers and have even spread to a wider range of effect. It is, then, an imperative to study these two persons as exemplars for my future career. It is based on this that I need to investigate the reasons behind their success, and more importantly, how their self-branding techniques have enabled and have empowered them to widen their influence.
 
 However, as this study, or proposal, proceeds, the understanding of the key ideas around the topic of self-branding techniques also evolve, to a maturer stage, and they will be discussed in the section below.
 
 #### Data Collection
 
 It is decided that the data would be collected from both the two investigated celebrities' online official account, and the contents selected would be restricted to one week, i.e. only one week, respectively, of their posts would be selected for research. First of all, it would be complex to delve into all of their posts and carry out investigations upon them, as it would be impossible to thoroughly investigate. This research is a project, and a project has a certain duration of time in which the project should be finished. The hypothesis is that there would be some underlying patterns in their contents/posts creation process, which would be an important theme in identifying their self-branding techniques. And one week of posts would be investigated since it would also follow those patterns. So, it would be important to determine that time duration, and here in this research the weekly posts selected would be in the week where the most viewed posts are made.
 
 Therefore, the posts that they made an would be investigated from the basic two perspectives. The first is their form. The form, i.e. the structure of the posts, would be of some value to be studied is because they are the skeletons of the posts. Since the posts would have similar, or even the same patterns, so would be the forms of them. The form is in this research defined as the basic outlines of the posts, which include:
 - Duration of the videos which is the only format in this research for the posts that will be addressed.
 - The mise-en-scene and cinematography for the posts, as they are two fundamental elements in every video.
 - The timestamps (if there are), and the filters used in the videos.

There would also be the second aspect: the contents. The forms give shape to the posts, but the contents are the key why the posts became viral. The contents would be discussed in the following ways:
- Context. The contents must have a theme in every video, and a theme has a background, i.e. a context that supports its existence and validity.
- Purpose. Any activity has a given purpose. The purposes of the posts are what the two influencer want their audience to act upon.
- Values, or/as the tendency towards which the ideologies move, in the posts selected. Values are where the two influencers subconsciously lead their audience to {Liu, 2020 #845}.
- And the most important one: personality, or image. Every entity would gain an image when it enters the society, in this case the society is the cyberspace. The personalities that the two influencers present in their posts are also the product they produce {Djafarova, 2017 #843}.

#### The Three Investigated Topics/Aspects

There are three topics that will be under investigation in this research, and they are: high quality user generated contents (UGC), multi-platform communication (MPC) and e-commerce monetisation (ECM). The three in total are what this research bases itself upon. That is, the three topics are the foundation for answering the questions that are raised in this research. How these three topics would contribute to the study would be discussed below.

What the three topics refer to are a model of the process of influence. The Internet enables people with unimaginable power to spread their ideas instantly at their fingertips, which has allowed the influence behaviour harder to be examined. And by that this research intends to mean that the "influence" is more of a self-evolving organism, rather than a meticulous design or plan. The influence here on the Internet is self-reproducible.

And, from there, came the idea of UGC. Most companies nowadays, especially the most successful ones, are not content producers, nor distributors themselves, such as Twitter, Facebook. It is the users of these online platforms are generating contents, including texts, images, audios, videos, hashtags, etc. The underlying huge amount of UGC provides the platforms with contents. In that sense, the contents are themselves dynamics, and a form of "momentum" {Van Den Bulck, 2014 #846}. And, therefore, high quality UGC would gain more attention on the web than less quality UGC, which means that there are clear boundaries as to the definition of UGC. The UGC created by influencers are, such as Li Ziqi and Zhang Dayi, themselves high quality UGC, even the contents may in fact be teamwork, which means that there would be people planning for the campaign, people who do the makeup, etc. The teamwork bring about high quality UGC, which is represented by one person and one alone. The audience is not aware of the "team" for the Internet celebrities, which leads to their only knowledge of the image of the celebrities themselves. The audience, as followers, would have certain expectation on the person that is presented in the posts, and thus create a "personality", a figure, or an image that do not actually exist in the physical world {Garcia-Rapp, 2017 #847}. This research will be looking for, then, the consequences made by such "personality" created by the high quality UGC, and discuss their relationships with the two celebrities' self-branding strategies.

The MPC would be discussed in the form section, however. The MPC is focused on the property of posts, regarding the channels that the two celebrities use to promote their self-branded image, i.e. the "personality" as is discussed above. A platform is a channel through which people communicate, and thus is also the way by which people are influenced. Communications have influences that are encoded with ideas, and are sacked into the form of posts. Every post is a well-structured and planned product that is used to promote something, be it a product, an idea, or an emotion, an opinion, etc. Therefore, through MPC the influencers would be able to reach every person who is a potential subscriber or follower, and the product that is eventually promoted is nothing else but the influencer himself or herself {Johnston, 2020 #848}.

The ECM is thus being employed by the influencers to transform themselves into profit, in the form of products and services. Social media has become the most effective way for anyone or any organisation to promote themselves, and while the main subject that is actually promoted are themselves, the actual outcome is the sales. This is often linked with the idea of social marketing, where there will be different sources of information being delivered to the public to make profits and generate revenues. The ECM is an umbrella term for this process, and it is achieved through MPC, which endorses social media communication that is packed into MPC {Lipschultz, 2018 #849}. That is the reason why the idea of Internet celebrity economy as an industry, instead of as an idea, is discussed earlier in this research. The incorporation of celebrities into the e-commerce market is simply not promotion through the product but through the person, and it is powerful {Felix, 2017 #666}. By using celebrities, e-commerce monetise the person that is promoted in the posts and thus create a "brand", but the fact is the brand is only a substitution of the term "spokesperson". However, the users on those platforms are unaware of that; the audience is actually imagined, both to the influencers and to the audience themselves, since the audience also has their audience {Marwick, 2011 #531}. This process, from a holistic view, is therefore perfect for ECM, in that ECM needs the number of people, or the scale of audience. The two influencers are incorporating themselves into such a scheme, in that influencers ultimately desire and need more and more influence. ECM is able to use and to be utilised for such an undertaking,as a result.