Philosophers as well as theologians have long discussed the corporeality of angels. The story of the angel Raphael is a good example - angels found in texts who takes "invisible meat and drink". Hobbes argued that angels are corporeal because of the self-contradiction in the phrase "incorporeal substance". Only spirits have no substance, at least corporeally. So it is better to say angels "are no corporeal entities" rather than "have incorporeal substances".

So Hobbes argues that either angels are incorporeal but are temporary beings, or that angels are corporeal and permanent. The former one seems odd since angels would be permanent in resurrection even though their names indicate they are only messengers, which could be anything (to make God's presence known to men). But the latter idea seems even weirder. If angels are permanent. then they must be corporeal. But as we know, corporeal beings eventually die and why would Scripture denotes angels as "spirits" which is incorporeal?

Hobbes did his best to find a balance: angels may be apparitions created by man's imagination of God's messengers.

> In one book of the Bible, Tobias (Tobit, as it is called in the King James Apocrypha), one of the leading characters is the angel Raphael. Through most of the story he appears as a man, but at the end, after he has accomplished his mission, he reveals his identity. "I am the angel Raphael," he declares,
> 
> "one of the seven, who stand before the Lord.
> And when they had heard these things they were troubled; and being seized with fear they fell upon the ground on their face.
> And the angel said to them: Peace be to you. Fear not.
> For when I was with you, I was there by the will of God: bless ye him and sing praises to him.
> I seemed to eat and to drink with you; but I use an invisible meat and drink, which cannot be seen by men.
> It is time there fore that I return to him that sent me: but bless ye God, and publish all his wonderful works.
> And when he had said these things, he was taken from their sight; and they could see him no more."
> [Tobit 12:15-21, Douay-Rheims 1899 American Edition](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Tobit+12&version=DRA)
> 
> AS A RESULT of scriptural exegesis and commentary, the angels become a fundamental topic for Jewish theologians from Philo to Maimonides, and for such Christian theologians as Augustine, Scotus Erigena, Gregory the Great, Aquinas, Luther, Calvin, Pascal, and Schleiermacher. They figure in the great poetry of the Judaeo-Christian tradition - in the *Divine Comedy* of Dante, in *Paradise Lost* of Milton, and in Chaucer's *Canterbury Tales* and Goethe's *Faust*.
> The philosophers, especially in the 17th and 18th centuries, are motivated by Scripture or provoked by theology to consider the existence, the nature, and the activity of angels. Hobbes, for example, attacks the supposition that angels are immaterial on the ground that the notion of incorporeal substance is self-contradictory, and undertakes to re-interpret all the scriptural passages in which angels are described as spirits. After examining a great many, he says that "to mention all the places of the Old Testament where the name of Angel is found, would be too long. Therefore to comprehend them all at once, I say, there is no text in that part of the Old Testament, which the Church of England holdeth for Canonical, from which we can conclude, there is, or hath been created, any permanent thing (understood by the name of *Spirit* or *Angel*) that hath not quantity... and, in sum, which is not (taking Body for that which is somewhat or somewhere) Corporeal."
> All the passages can be interpreted, Hobbes thinks, simply in the sense in which "angel" means "messenger" and "most often, a messenger of God," which signifies "anything that makes known his extra-ordinary presence." If, instead of existing only when they carry God's word to men, the angels are supposed to have permanent being, then they must be corporeal. As "in the resurrection men shall be permanent and not incorporeal," Hobbes writes, "so therefore also are the angels... To men that understand the signification of these words, *substance* and *incorporeal*" - and mean by "incorporeal" having no body at all, not just a *subtle* body - the words taken together "imply a contradiction." Hence Hobbes argues that to say "an angel, or spirit, is (in that sense) an incorporeal substance, is to say in effect that there is no angel or spirit at all. Considering therefore the signification of the word *angel* in the Old Testament, and the nature of dreams and visions that happen to men by the ordinary way of nature," Hobbes concludes that the angels are "nothing but supernatural apparitions of the fancy, raised by the special and extraordinary operation of God, thereby to make his presence and commandments known to mankind, and chiefly to his own people."