So Hobbes thinks that angels are no more than mere fictions that human created to represent all things and phenomena that can be understood as "God's will", in the sense that angels are either permanent and thus corporeal, or temporary and thus incorporeal. His position is more like: "I do not know what is the 'spiritual substance', since if there is some substance, it must be material. But spirits are immaterial, so there could not be such a substance. So angels are not some substance, which means they do not exist."

Locke, however, doesn't accept the deduction that corporeality is about existence. Hobbes made a false connection between corporeality and existence, and that "substance" must be material, that [[angels are people's imagination by Hobbes]].

Locke is more of a person who doubts, "I cannot know therefore I cannot prove." We do not have any knowledge, so we do not know whether they exist or not. But it is better to think they exist than to think not since they are a collective of qualities of the mind.. Well, it's more of scepticism.

> Locke seems to take the exactly opposite position. Asserting that we have "no clear or distinct idea of substance in general," he does not think spirits any less intelligible than bodies. "The idea of *corporeal substance*," he writes, "is as remote from our conceptions and apprehensions, as that of *spiritual substance* or spirit; and therefore, from our not having any notion of the substance of spirit, we can no more conclude its non-existence, than we can, for the same reason, deny the existence of body." Just as we form the complex idea of bodies by supposing their qualities, such as figure and motion, or colour and weight, to co-exist in some substratum; so by supposing the activities we find in ourselves - such as "thinking, understanding, willing, knowing, and the power of beginning motion, etc." - to co-exist in some substance, "we are able to frame the *complex idea of an immaterial spirit*."