The idea that confronts the dualist conceptions is simple: **the mind is a function of the body, and is defined as the body's various organic processes**.

The dualist conceptions of the self was gradually unsupported by modern discoveries in science and medicine, and the ideas that challenges these conceptions date back to the eighteenth century.

That may be why anti-rationalism challenges the view to privilege the mind over body, too. Rationalism takes for granted that our minds can think rationally regardless of variety in that it takes a abstraction stance. The body, however, on the other hand, can not be purely defined abstractly and seems to contradict and reject every attempt of abstraction - [[literature is like bodies thus can help understand bodies]]. While in the meantime the disembodied mind at first glance looks as if prophecies about mind and eternal spirits, it still depends on the body to function, at least to the extent of scientific research has reached.

> And yet, the nineteenth, twentieth and twenty-first centuries have witnessed a more clear-cut move away from dualist conceptions of the self, supported by scientific and medical discoveries. Darwin's synthesis of evolutionary theory in *The Origin of Species* (1859) was fundamental, but the ideas advanced in his work had already been inaugurated in the late eighteenth century. Darwin and his predecessors postulated that the mind was a function of the body and its various organic processes.
> 
> Twentieth-century anti-rationalist thinkers such as Merleau-Ponty, Gilles Deleuze (1925-1995) and Paul Ricoeur have similarly refused to privilege the mind over the body. Instead, in their thinking , the mind is always already of the body and inherently embodied in its workings. **This stance can already be witnessed in the anti-rationalist philosophy of Henri Bergson (1859-1941), whose work profoundly influenced modernist writers such as Marcel Proust and Virginia Woolf**. Even while Bergson articulates a Cartesian dualism of body and mind, central concepts in his thinking such as the *élan vital*, the embodied experience of time found in his notion of *durée* (duration), and the emphasis on laughter in his theory of comedy ultimately privilege the body over the mind.
> 
> The anti-rationalism prevalent in the modernist period can also be witnessed in authors such as D. H. Lawrence and Samuel Beckett, in whose writing embodied agency takes centre stage. In the first half of the twentieth century, Merleau-Ponty developed his influential philosophy of the embodied subject: 'The body is our general medium for having a world', he argued, the precondition of any experience at all. **For these writers, the disembodied mind or consciousness was a metaphysical substitute for religious speculations of the soul**.