Virginia Woolf in her own works had employed much use of bodily expressions, sensations and descriptions. Every writer needs to talk about the body here and there, unavoidably, since the body is the first thing that we can conceive in mind when reading - it is the most familiar to us. We use it every day.
The word "embody" actually is a combination of "-em" and "-body". When we say something embodies something, we are saying that either something is the best example, or something is included. So we could say that our bodies are either the best example of something - maybe our minds, or that our bodies are included in our identities. Well, we could at least tell that one body is our own and the other belongs to someone else.
That raises the question of [[body is undefinable#^0096dd|subjectivity]]. Once the division and distinction is made between someone and ourselves, there would be some panic at least. Subjectivity is shown through the subject; objectivity is too, through the object.
That means we no longer regard ourselves as one with everyone and the world. This is the starting point of alienation of mind.

> In her well-known essay on illness, Virginia Woolf writes of the need in literature to represent such experiences as 'heat and cold, comfort and discomfort, hunger and satisfaction, health and illness', sensations and bodily expressions that are crucial to the everyday. Writers from Chaucer, Montaigne and Shakespeare to Rimbaud, James Joyce, Kafka and Woolf herself have all written with profundity and compassion about the many varieties of embodied experience: sex and childbirth, eating and defecation, pleasure an pain, desire and repulsion.
