This Conversation is not valued because it is some kind of history. It is valued because it can help us solve our "contemporary" problems. The situation is causing concern. Human is developing in its science, but not in the speed that is same as in the science. The answer could not be find yet, and maybe consulting our ancestors may be of some help.

> The Editors do not believe that any of the social and political changes that have taken place in the last fifty years, or any that now seem imminent, have invalidated or can invalidate the tradition or make it irrelevant for modern men. On the contrary, they are convinced that the West needs to recapture and re-emphasise and bring to bear upon its present problems the wisdom that lies in the works of its greatest thinkers and in the discussion that they have carried on.


> This set of book is offered in no antiquarian spirit. We have not seen our task as that of taking tourists on a visit to ancient ruins or to the quaint productions of primitive peoples. We have not though of providing our readers with hours of relaxation or with an escape from the dreadful cares that are the lot of every man in the second half of the twentieth century after Christ. We are as concerned as anybody else at the headlong plunge into the abyss that the Western civilisation seems to be taking. We believe that the voices that may recall the West to sanity are those which have taken part in [[the Great Conversation]]. We want them to be heard again - not because we want to go back to antiquity, or the Middle Ages, or the Renaissance, or the Eighteenth Century. We are quite aware that we do not live in any time but the present, and distressing as the present is, we would not care to live in any other time if we could. We want the voices of [[the Great Conversation]] to be heard again because we think they may help us to learn to live better now.

^e6af71

