The idea of [[angel as an analytical tool]] to determine the goodness or badness of human actions in space and time - humans are after all corporeal beings. And any corporeal being would be subject to the natural law which works in space and time.

Anyhow, angels are incorporeal, compared with humans. Thus there are certain views regarding human intelligence would be similar to angels/spirits. We regard spirits as incorporeal, in the same way we think of angels.

However, to attribute human to angel or brute would be much misleading - since he is neither, in my view. Nietzsche thinks that human is the bridge from animal to superhuman. If we make brutes the equivalent of animals, and angel the equivalent of superhuman, then human is only the interval. These concepts are considering human nature - are we after all corporeal, since we have bodies, or are we after all spirits, being trapped in our bodies?

But what does that mean? Is the body only a mere auxiliary to our realer existence, i.e. the spirit? Does that mean to evolve to a higher level of consciousness we need to abandon our bodies, as angels?

The understanding of body would be essential in answering what human nature is.

> This idea of angels does in fact serve in precisely this way as ag of **what man is, how his mind operates, what the soul is, what manner of existence and n analytical tool. It sharpens our understandinaction anything would have apart from matter**. Hence it suggests how matter and its motions in time and space determine the characteristics of corporeal existence. Pascal's remark - that "man is neither angel nor brute, and the unfortunate thing is that he who would act the angel acts the brute" - points to the different conceptions of man which result from supposing him to be either angel or brute rather than neither. Such views of human nature, considered in the chapters on ANIMAL and MAN, cannot be fully explored without reference to theories of the human mind or soul in its relation to matter and to body. As the chapters on MIND and SOUL indicate, theories carrying the names of Plato and Descartes, which attribute to the human mind or soul the being and powers of a purely spiritual substance or entity, seem to place man in the company of the angels. In this tradition Locke applies the word "spirits" equally to human minds and to supra-human intelligences.