---
subject: Work, Organisation and Management
login-link: https://ilearn.mq.edu.au/
username: 46171614
password: Jx19980529
ref-style: APA 7th
requirements-1: organisation 写 Dior
requirements-2: A1 具体讲解参看 MGMT6051_6008_Research_planning_writing (Vanessas content).pdf
requirements-3: 视频讲解已提供 参看 Overview of case study report.mp4 + Hints and tips on the case study report.mp4
requirements-4: 重点看 week3 课件
---
link: [[MQ#^564ca1]]

---

### Background

The company, Christian Dior Australia Pty Ltd, is an Australian local operating subsidiary of the world famous High Fashion house Christian Dior, which is a French company operating its business in the fashion industry, mainly the Women's Accessory and Specialty industry, and which sells a wide range of products as well as services. Christian Dior Couture is a luxury brand that has 196 boutiques and over 5, 000 employees over the globe, and it has become the world's largest fashion group with its revenues hit $49 billion in 2017. Christian Dior Australia is based in Brisbane, Queensland, retailing in fashion clothing, perfume, skincare and cosmetics products, including other fashion accessories, and it also owns a flagship store or, boutique in Sydney. Its main competitors in Australia includes Chanel (Australia) Pty Ltd, Prada Australia Pty Ltd, and Gucci Australia Pty Ltd, and many others subsidiaries of other popular fashion houses in Australia {Company 360,  #519}.

### Major Issues

Christian Dior Australia has been a famous company, being successful for over nearly a century in the world. However, as a global corporation, the company also faces a unwanted yet must-solve problem: management. Innumerable articles have been written, uncountable researches have been carried out, in order to solve the problem of management. And, as current literature shows, management is not only about pushing people, in other words, employees and intermediary managers, to work harder and harder, but should be more focused on the risk, that is, predicting, facing, handling, and eradicating risks from the system of the management of a corporation as a whole {O'Donnell, 2005 #165}.

Management, however, reaches to such a wide range of industries, disciplines, and topics, that it has becomes increasingly difficult for managers to deal with their own problems with a sustainable yet robust strategy for the organisations for which they work. But, when it comes to employee management, one scholarly subject is worth being paid attention to, employee motivation. In the case of Christian Dior Australia, the problem seems quite serious, even though the company has been putting much work into this sector of business operations. Dior's rating in terms of labour satisfaction is not reported as positively as it was on environmental protection. In fact, Dior was rated between a score of 21-30% in the case of its labour condition, and their working environments {Fashion Revolution, 2020 #526}. The company has been dedicating itself to reveal its hard efforts put into policies regarding supplier rights and benefits, audits, remediation, and many other processes. However, it is hard to find traces of its labour quality, employee satisfaction towards the company and their wages. For example, there could not be find a thorough and comprehensive Corporate Social Responsibility reporting about the subject of gender equality, freedom of association and so on, which are highly important for employees to have a sense of motivation and thus stronger dedication to their jobs and the company.

Moreover, when it comes to the COVID-19 pandemic that has been and is still now spreading over the world, Dior also did not disclose information on policies, or safeguards in terms of protection of their suppliers, which includes their employees, and workers. And when it comes to the subsidiary, Christian Dior Australia, the problem has gone worse. The COVID-19 pandemic is likely to cause the economy of Australia to shrink and is very much on the way, and nearly 6 million people are in the coming risk of losing their jobs {Schlumbohm, 2020 #89}. These people would include employees who work for the Christian Dior Australia, and since Dior doesn't disclose information in this account, there is fundamentally nowhere to tell the real situation.

All these that were mentioned above contribute to the problem of employee motivation. Or in a more accurate manner of articulation, "employee demotivation". These factors are not contributing to the overall satisfaction of Dior's employees, but are fundamentally key influencing variables and nurturing factors to the variables. Under such a circumstance, it is an imperative to investigate into the problem with support from the academic field of motivation theories and management theories.

The issues, then, can be concluded as the following. First, when it comes to employee satisfaction, it can be found that employees are not motivated by the corporation's policies, but are demotivated by some of the policies. Second, Dior has not been put enough efforts into their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) reporting, and that is unfavourable in terms of long term corporation development and growth in revenue and profitability. Third, the potential risk caused by the lack of employee satisfaction would contribute to future decline in corporation reputation and social image, upon which Dior, as a fashion house, depends highly.

### Analysis

In concluding the three issues in terms of the management and employee satisfaction of Christian Dior Australia, this essay aims to find potential factors and their solutions with the support from existing employee motivation theories, management theories and practices, and CSR reporting and its relation to employee satisfaction.

First of all, employee satisfaction. Previous researches have found that employee satisfaction, though is linked with wages, salaries and bonuses, but are not necessarily mainly contributed by these terms of incomes. In other words, high incomes for employees are a contributing factor of their assessments relating to life expectations and self-contributed abilities, but is not a determining factor of their wellbeing with regards to emotions, sensibilities, and mental health {Kahneman, 2010 #522}. Money is a basic need, as provisions, for human life for any human being in the world, and that is where economics and markets come from: people need to work to earn a living, to improve their quality of life, and to provide for their precedents, etc. But in today's world, growing concerns have been raised since that in such a world of current economic growth, it is natural and is also an imperative to ask the question of whether people would live better in the near future to come, in terms of their subjective wellbeing? Luxuries and luxury brands, such as Dior, is themselves vivid and qualified examples to answer such a question. Many people as well as researchers are devoting themselves to answer the question, and many people would want to know whether money can make their life happier. The chase for luxuries, the craze for brands are themselves answers. But researches have found that even though money would increase the sense of happiness, it is not necessarily a determinant of a wider range of happiness {Diener, 2002 #527}. It is not enough for Dior to provide higher and higher income for their employees and expects that the employees will get motivated. And it is of course understood that high income would be able to attract employees with high degree of competency and talents, but that would not be sufficient since a successful corporation needs to be capable of retaining their employees, in the long run. There is currently demotivating factors existing in the company's employee payment and salary policies, since the company is in control of these aspects, and it is thus responsible for the change in these policies. Only with the support of the changes embedded in policies can the company start to motivate its employees with a new perspective and with better outcomes, in the sense that company policies is embedded in a company's culture {McGregor, 2015 #520}.

Secondly, there is a cleavage between the CSR reporting of Dior (hereby it includes Christian Dior Australia) and the society's as well as the employees' expectation of the company's disclosure of information. The current information disclosed in the CSR reporting does not necessarily tell the efforts that Dior has put into the protection of labour interests as well as their employees'. One thing to be reminded of when it comes to CSR reporting is that CSR is directly connected to the concept of stakeholders, and by all means, too, to the concept and practices of successful, transparent, and effective management {Sheehy, 2015 #115}. Furthermore, when considering CSR and stakeholders, it is worth attention and understanding that the stakeholders of a company also includes its employees, since the business operations of the company would be inevitably influencing its employees and the employees are also responsible for the growth as well as profitability of the company {Dhaliwal, 2014 #15}. Thus, if Dior is to become a sustainable fashion house in aspects not only of the environment, but also of the society, then it would be an obstacle for Dior if it does not start to pay more heed to their employees' situations and working conditions, which would contribute to the fashion house's and their CSR's longevity {Porter, 2013 #111}. This is also possible that Dior's possible future attention to their employees satisfaction to improve their motivation would constitute to their better management, since management means, to a certain extent, to manage the unmanageable, that is, the future in many cases.

Thirdly, a company operates in a wide range of networks, as is the case for the company's risk situation modelling. Dior, as a fashion house, has a high dependency on its reputation, whether in regards of the product, quality, time range, delivering, and others. Such reputation is, however, also affected by employees' comments after they leave the company. If there is not sufficient 
employee motivation, and managers, who are in some sense leaders, can not motivate their teams and employees, there is possibly a growing concern from the society and the market about the future and present potential risks of the company's employee turnover {Dranitsaris, 2011 #523}. This situation can be proven by employees in public organisations, where there is a higher chance of employees leaving and negative commenting {Sultana, 2020 #524}. This outcome, however, is not some scenario that the company can afford. The employees' turnover, as well as the outcome of it, the decline in reputation and social image, would both contribute to the losses in revenue and profitability, and at last the company's financial performance, which will lead to the losses with regards to confidence from investors and shareholders {Freeman, 2010 #108}. This is a systematic cycle that is hard to break. Whether for the benefits of their financial performance which comes from, partially, high degree of employee motivation, or for the avoidance of the potential losses in revenue, Dior should at least consider a more systematic strategy, or strategies to promote their employees' motivation degree {Banerjee, 2012 #209}.

### Possible Solutions

The suggested possible solutions are twofold. First, Dior needs to understand that to raise employees' salaries would not suffice; a more thorough understanding of the causes and outcomes of its employees' demotivation is an imperative. This requires the company to be clear about the potential link between its employees and its profitability, in terms of financial performance as well as of the responsibility it must serve to its stakeholders. Secondly, Dior (including Christian Dior Australia) must incorporate the disclosure of key information relating to employee satisfaction, labour environments and other related topic into its CSR accounting and reporting processes, since it would only be beneficial to the company's overall performance, and possible outcomes of losses of revenue are, as a matter of fact, the company would like to avoid in the first place.