---
subject: Developing Sustainable Destinations
login-link: https://online.uts.edu.au/
username: 
password: 
ref-style: 
requirements-1: 两个 topics 中任选一个写 2000 字 essay 需要 10 条 references 不计入字数
---
link: [[UTS#^ad041f]]

---

Topic chosen: the COVID-19 pandemic presents both a catastrophe and an opportunity for tourism destinations to re-invent the tourism industry and place a renewed focus on responsible travel within ecological and social limits.

# Sustainable Tourism Destination - A View for post-COVID-19 Industry Management and Development

## Introduction

The tourism industry was and is still one of the most influencing factors contributing to the total wealth generated in many major countries in the world nowadays. The tourism industry has been growing rapidly, partly as a result of the development in global development of society and economy, which directly improves people's life quality in terms of having more leisure time {Cui, 2016 #507}. And, it is worth mentioning that many countries, such as Australia, rely heavily on the tourism industry as a source of national economic growth, alongside the education sector. The country is one of the wealthiest countries in Asia-Pacific, with nearly 25 million people living on a land of about 7 million sq km area {Schlumbohm, 2020 #89}. Such a country with its abundant natural resources and sights provided the country with a myriad of benefits in developing its tourism, inbound and outbound. But with the COVID-19 pandemic rolling over the entire world, Australia is expected to be affected, too, especially its tourism industry. As one of the most popular tourism destination, Australia could be a sufficient example in analysing the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic and the possible solutions supported by sustainable tourism. However, in considering transformed tourism for sustainable growth, it is also needed to address other countries as contrasting examples, and the country that is chosen here is Cyprus.

## Overview of the Tourism Industry, in Relation to Sustainability, and the COVID-19 pandemic, in the case of Australia

The tourism industry has long been discussed by many scholars in the field in terms of environment, politics, geography, demography, and so on. Many have seen the potential of this industry, and many have participated as well as anticipated the rapid growth of it. What's more, many researchers have by far stressed upon the concept of tourism development with sustainability. That does not mean only sustainable tourism, but also mean the sustainable development of tourism in relation with other industries, such as the hospitality industry, the retail store of fashion industry located at the tourism destinations, etc.

Sustainable tourism, as a term, emerged from the late 1980s, and has been modified its meaning in pace with development in the tourism industry. However, there should be a distinction made that divides the two term "tourism development" and "tourism within sustainable development principle" {Butler, 1999 #105}. In considering sustainability, though, risks are one major factor to be addressed. In order to gain and maintain sustainability, risks should be anticipated, analysed, mitigated, and with sufficient efforts avoided. It is suggested and proven by research and related literature that risks are what people would pay heed to when choosing travel destinations, and that destinations risk perceived by tourists would attribute to their purchase intention and decision making process {Cui, 2016 #507}. With such a reality does lay before managers in the field with hardships, the need of sustainability increases more than before.

The COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 was and is still an illustrative example of the risks that may occur to the tourism industry. COVID-19 has been in 2020 influencing almost every country in the world.  And, Australia, as one of the major countries that rely heavily on tourism to generate value and to increase its economic strengths and robustness, has been not only influenced, but has also been impacted. Recent research, devoting to investigate the relationship that tourism and economic growth has, had found that the tourism industry as a dynamic industry was hugely damaged by the COVID-19 pandemic, or, crisis {Oleksii, 2020 #197}. As the world is becoming increasingly globalised, the tourism industry has been more and more shaped by political, economic, and cultural exchanges and intercommunication, while the pandemic is also impacting every nation. So, the damage has been made to Australia, for example, has been creating great hazards to the tourism industry, in its supply chain management, in tourist expecting probability of getting infected, etc. The bush fires starting in the early 2020 had already caused tremendous losses of wildlife and wealth, after Australia's avoiding recession for many years, even in the 2008 global financial crisis {Schlumbohm, 2020 #89}. Now with the COVID-19, almost 6 million people are facing the risk of unemployment. The economy is expected to face a budget deficit of nearly 16% of its the country's current GDP, and much of these losses could be ranged in two major sectors of the economy: education, and tourism {Schlumbohm, 2020 #89}.

The stability and sustainability is more needed to be restored than ever before. The condensed idea is to first restore stability so that every industry can start to move along, and then to redesign and redistribute the processes and elements in the tourism industry. However, it is an imperative to understand that the tourism industry, as well as the economy as a whole are both dynamics. In order to manage such dynamics requires a systematic perspective. There are thus two approaches. First, the tourism industry should strengthen the its core business by acknowledging that the industry now needs redesign, and should work on reconstruct its value chain. The second approach would be to mitigate the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, and to learn what strategies could be used to combat such risks imposed by natural disasters.

The case here and now is, however, not quite optimistic. The economic sector of a country is interdependent on the nation's ecological distribution, or the environment, and the human-composed society. The environment is partly determined by human activity since it is proven by history that human activity will have a lasting effect on the natural environment. Therefore, the first step in redesigning the tourism industry structure is to plant the tree first: environmental stewardship. The efforts that a country, as well as an industry invest in environment protection would be a factual, moral and social influence that increases tourists expectation of that tourism destination. It is much similar to the idea of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), that describes corporations' social roles and their duty to serve the society in which they operate. The tourism industry is not an exception. If the tourism industry is to transform, even to transmute the COVID-19 risks into an opportunity for positive influence and consequences, then the industry should acknowledge that the rules are becoming different than before. The gradual transition of focus on profit-making to environmental protection would benefit the economy as a gift in return. Moreover, it is also a must that the tourism industry acknowledges the importance of CSR accounting and reporting. Research in current literature has found that CSR reporting has a positive link with a corporation's financial performance, in juxtaposition with the increase in its reputation caused by CSR which leads to citizenship performance improvement {Gangi, 2019 #113}. Thus, if to think ab0ut the tourism industry as a whole, from a holistic view the industry works as a corporation {Shem Wambugu, 2019 #107}. These findings can be regarded as one of the possible ways to enhance performance of the entire industry because it works on the macro platform level.

It is in such circumstances that governmental and political regulations are needed on a broader scale. Researches have confirmed that some corporations would exploit CSR accounting and reporting to empower their own social image, provided by the effects that CSR reporting has on improving corporations' reputation {Zhou, 2020 #110}. These corporations would stress the future development of the company as an incentive for potential shareholders to be baited on and invest, while ignoring with hidden intention a majority of their stakeholders' rights, who may have no place to express their needs since they are not the key stakeholders {Dhaliwal, 2014 #15}. Besides this is the profitability that CSR reporting offers since it would potentially contribute to corporations' branding strategy, in a positive way {Idowu, 2014 #116}.

## Sustainable Tourism in the Case of Cyprus as A Contrast

It is a different image for the tourism industry in Cyprus. Tourism development has been a topic that has received myriads of research articles, and most of them mentioned tourism in island microstates of which Cyprus is one. The COVID-19 pandemic has been spreading all over the world, and it is also what happened on those states. Considering the relatively small area of land in those states, it is all the more serious to battle with the COVID-19. If, then, regarding these nations in respect of sustainable tourism development, the image would be more gloomy. Australia already has millions of people losing their jobs, and Cyprus, small compared with Australia, the percentage of people losing jobs would only be much higher.

It is worth taking into consideration that Cyprus has been periodically influenced by social and political tension, and war. The country has a extensive scale of tourism, after it claimed freedom and independence from the United Kingdom in 1960. The people travel to Cyprus were mostly from its neighbourhood, other small countries nearby. The distance the country has from other places in the world has made it one of the most popular tourist attractions and since it offers such exotic views and lifestyles, the island government established a tourism development plan for it, in 1940s {Ioannides, 2016 #500}.

The COVID-19 pandemic, then, is a huge challenge for the country. It is under such a situation that sustainability should be considered from a view that is distinct from what the same case would be in Australia. To those small state, island micro nations, the sustainable development could only be gained by reconstruct its tourism value chain. The tourism industry in those micro states are heavily backed up by other industries, for instance, the food industry, the hospitality industry, and the retail industry, and so on. To revive the economy and bring livelihood to these industries, the tourism industry needs to reorganise its supply chain, in response to the ever growing demand from the food and the hospitality industry. With the intention to save the economy, the nations such as Cyprus need to think about the possible alternatives they can offer to the world, which might be possible if the nations regard the pandemic as a chance that is provided by not foreseeing turmoil in and from the outer world.

## Conclusions

It should be again validated that the COVID-19 pandemic could contribute to global economic downturn, or it could be constituting a possible opportunity to redesign the tourism industry with the help of the pandemic, which is a kind of external  turmoil caused not by nations' internal decision making flaws. The understandings should differ, however, between countries that are distant in scale, though they might all rely on the tourism industry as one major factor of economic growth.

Nations should take the chance, too. It is much the case for Australia, though. The country depends on the services sector in the market, but when the tourism industry is riding down, other industries that go along with it would only get worse. Sustainable tourism development and sustainable economic growth will not be in parallel under the current circumstance of global pandemic, but it might not turn out to be the case as it is now after the pandemic ends. To retrieve past achievements and to regain robust growth, the tourism industry in the world should start to think about whether it provides a chance for business remodelling and value chain restructure, or it is only a horrible incident that can only be hoped to end soon before it costs the industries too much. With such an understanding could post-COVID-19 tourism industry revive with prosperity.