### the aura of light as indication of illuminations; greatness v.s. success

The aura of light when we conceive the image of angels in our minds may be regarded in another view: its functions, instead of its symbolic meanings. Humans have longed for illuminations which in its word root implies 'light'. We often talk about the 'insight', and refer to it as 'muse', a goddess that enlightens us in creation. And this habit of us implies that we may not think that our intelligence is **inborn** in us by our merit, but is rather **installed** by Heaven, which, whatever it is, is something beyond our comprehension as well as us ourselves. We may not think that angels and God or any other celestial beings are real, i.e. existed, but our discussions about our lives and basically every other part of it may have been seen from this perspective, i.e. greatness.

It could be argued that nowadays people do not long for 'greatness', at least not in its sense a few decades ago. People wish for 'success', instead. Greatness implies to some extent one's integrity and character, both of which are not observable from the exterior directly. However, one's success could be so observable that it could even be quantified by some definition.

So, which do I want? Which should I want?

> Another interpretation might be put upon this aura of light if one considers the role which the notion of angel has played in the history of thought. Wherever that notion has entered into discussions of God and man, of matter, mind, and soul, of knowledge and love, and even of time, space, and motion, it has cast light upon these other topics. The illumination which has been and can be derived from the idea of angels as a special kind of being or nature is in no way affected by doubts or denials of their existence.
