---
subject: Tourism Systems
login-link: https://my.griffith.edu.au/
username: s5185501
password: ZTz.8065
ref-style: Griffith (APA7th)
requirements-1: 
---
link: [[GU#^f74244]]

[[Griffith (APA 7th).pdf]]

---

(2003). Impact of Tourism: Thailand [Video file]. TV Choice. Retrieved March 16, 2021, from Kanopy.

1. Identify two elements within the tourism system of interest to you which is presented in the video.

There are two basic elements I have noticed in the video "Impact of Tourism: Thailand". The first one is the environment, and the other is abstraction and hierarchy. The environment was mentioned in the beginning of the video, and the abstraction and hierarchy part was brought up not long after the environment was discussed.

2. Explain two functions performed by these elements. Be as specific as you can.

The environment is one of the fundamental elements in tourism and hospitality industry, especially in the case of Thailand where there are many sightseeing spots and islands {Zhang, 2020 #104}. The first function that draws my attenti0n is the function of the environment to react to exterior dynamics. At the beginning of the video, Thailand was described as a country that relies heavily on farming and the land. However, the tranquility of this "initial state" of environment was disturbed, by millions of tourists from abroad, which is a kind of exterior factors that interact with the local environment. The government had to take action, being forced to make decisions between weighing more on tourism. This is the function of the environment to react and interact.

There is another function that also engrossed me. The abstraction and hierarchy, which must exist in terms of more convenience in management and allocations of resources, has in this video demonstrated high involvement in the managerial, i.e., the national and the local levels. These institutions and groups made up of people are to create some balance among echelons. That is why the official in the video said "I think we learned our lesson the hard way" and the country decided to promote ecotourism. Hierarchy plays such an important role as managing and regulating locals and tourists' behaviours and as deciding what to promote or not {Butler, 1999 #105}.


3. Explain two dynamics generated by interactions of these two elements identified.

The environment reacts to change such as the flowing in of millions of tourists, and the hierarchy and abstraction was to maintain the balance between locals and tourists, as well as between human beings and the environment. The two functions interact, or overlay each other. Here are two dynamics I would like to discuss.

It could be argued that the dynamics are multi-faceted. The locals have two kinds of attitude fundamentally about tourists: welcome or not. And tourists would have the same types of attitude but in terms of liking or not. This has created the first dynamics, I think, between the local and the tourists. The local travel institutions were built to contain that dynamics and maintain the positive effects of the dynamics. 

The result leads to only two paths: become more sustainable, or not, and this result would depend on the local development. And when it comes to development and sustainability, allocations and managements from a wider and higher point of view would be vital. The hierarchy and abstraction element thus comes in the equation. While tourism generate revenues, it also works at the local and the international level, in a way that the patterns of activities are emerged from the dynamics it creates. This dynamic, which I would call it "supervision for the good," since that dynamics, if controlled, would be able to boost local development.

4. Explain two ways in which the broader environment reacts to the dynamics generated.

There are two ways that the broader environment reacts to the dynamics generated. The first is the international reputation that Thailand receives will grow. The growing economy is the proof of it, and the exterior environment, in contrast with the local environment, would struck the local living condition, lifestyles, and attitude {Dianycel Cardoso, 2019 #106}. The economic benefited people, and the government is pushing to accelerate this process in the meantime. The attitude of the locals would change if the incentive of opening for guests and tourists is strong enough.

But that is also exactly why the Thai government would demand in the speech that there should not only be tourism, but ecotourism, that is, a kind of tourism that generates not only material profits, but also environmental robustness and sustainability in the context of over-tourism. The governments reacted to the broader environment by better their strategies in constructing better local environment, and the environment reacts the similarly to the local and national decisions {Shem Wambugu, 2019 #107}.

---


5. What new insights did you gain from your peer feedback about your interested tourism system? (Marking rubric Part 1: Self Reflection).


---

Notes:

1. A "system" is broadly defined as "a set of things - people, cells, molecules, or whatever - interconnected in such a way that they produce their own pattern of behaviour over time (Meadows, 2008, p.2)[^1]."
2. "Tourism is the study of man away from his or her usual habitat, of the industry which responds to these needs, and of the impacts that both he and the industry have on the host's socio-cultural, economic, and physical environments. (Jafari, 1977, p.6)[^2]."
3. tourist components: 
	1. spatial
	2. temporal
	3. travel purpose
4. tourism hospitality significance:
	1. **export earnings** from international tourism (foreign revenues)
	2. is an important component of **export diversification**, both for emerging and advanced economies, with a strong capacity to reduce trade deficits and to compensate for weaker export revenues from other goods and services.
	3. job creation capacity
5. System dynamic modelling is one of the of the many applications of systems thinking approaches
	1. problem articulation (boundary selection)
	2. dynamic hypothesis
	3. formulation
	4. testing
	5. policy formulation&evaluation
6. Element/Stock: most obvious ,can be intangible.
7. Function/Purpose: least obvious, most crucial determinant
8. Dynamics: behaviour over time
9. Environment
10. Abstraction  and Hierarchy
11. Emergence
12. Self-Organisation
13. Non-linearity

origin region: governments, rules, regulations, impacts, origin community, large outflow, ghost towns, local businesses suffer

destination region: destination communities, long term success dependent, good will and support the local residents, destination governments, marketing planning monitoring, implement pro-tourism policies to encourage growth

transit region: transit route, can be a destination in itself









[^1]: Meadows, D.H. (2007). *Thinking in Systems: A Primer*. Chelsea Green, White River Junction, Vermont.
[^2]: Jafari, J. (1977). Editor's Page. Annals of Tourism Research, 5(sp.issue), pp. 6-11.