---
subject: Comparative Management
login-link: https://my.griffith.edu.au/
username: S5121422
password: Wlq19960430
ref-style: 
requirements-1: 回答question中的问题，写450字
---
link: [[GU#^2ea689]]

---

1. After viewing Lecture 2a and the video on "Types of Government", select one type of government discussed and outline the advantages and disadvantages of doing business in a specified country with the form of government.
	The chosen form of government is democracy.
	- Advantages:
		-	 Democratic countries advocate individualism. In such a country, businesses would boom if the corporations can get to understand that targeting the consumers equals to targeting their individuality.
		- In direct democracies, people directly vote, and citizens get hold of the countries. Companies who invest in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) would increase its image and social reputation among people {Dhaliwal, 2014 #15}.
	- Disadvantages:
		- In a country where everyone can vote, the majority always wins. The business may have to follow regulations that the majority chose which doesn't serve the corporation's bet interest.
		- It would take a huge amount of time to get allowed to conduct business in such a country, since the so-called procedures might turn out to be red tape.
		- Corporations may fail to understand and bridge the cultural distances from the host country.
2. After viewing Lecture 2b and the video on "Kodak", outline some of the drivers of Kodak's decline. How could the managers have avoided it?
	- Key drivers, from my viewpoint:
		- Kodak missed the chance of transforming and upgrading itself. Or to put it differently, Kodak didn't realise the potential threat from digital cameras.
		- Kodak was trying to "play it safe", but trends never waits. They were too keen on keeping their 90% share in the market, and this shortsightedness is from their lack of assessments of the external environment, and of the clarity of their internal business operations.
	- How could they have managed in my opinion:
		- They could have stepped back and see the big picture. Kodak was focusing on the film industry since that's where they had a large portion of market share. But digital cameras were coming. Kodak themselves even have had a few touches on it, but they just ditched that idea, because of their narrow sense of focus.
3. After viewing Lecture 2c, select two countries and conduct a brief CAGE analysis. Are they close or distant? How easy would it be to conduct business between the two?
Australia in comparison with China
