---
subject: Comparative Management
login-link: https://my.griffith.edu.au/
username: S5121422
password: Wlq19960430
ref-style: 
requirements-1: 回答question中的问题
---
link: [[GU#^7b0c54]]

---

### 1. Analyse the selected emerging economy according to criteria discussed in (lecture 5a)

The selected country for comparing the advantages and disadvantages of establishing business is South Korea, which represents, along with Australia, nearly half of the total output of East Asia, and businesses are booming in this country {IBISWorld, 2021 #858}. There will be, therefore, an amount of advantages of entering this national market which is also in the global networked market, including:

1. The country has maintained its political stability.
2. The country has free market systems where new businesses would thrive due to the less restricted regulations and policies.
3. The nation and its market is continually growing.
4. The people of South Korea have growing purchasing power which could be the source of potential revenues.
5. The earlier a business enters would gain first-mover advantages.

Disadvantages include the potential pioneering costs, since it would require an considerable amount of investment and devotion of time, monetary expense and efforts to lead in the market. Furthermore, to educate the consumers would be a potential cost, and there might be other mistakes that are major enough to cause strategic failure for corporations entering South Korea.

### 2. Reconcile global integration vs national responsiveness demands (lecture 5b)

The international management serves the purpose of generating values, i.e. revenues and profits. The statement, that global integration and national responsiveness clash when they meet each other as two means of promoting profitability, would be true in these ways:

1. It is true when a firm chooses the global strategy for its business.
2. It is true when there are risks of investing too much on the productivity to expanse its business to the world.
3. It is true when there are huge profits to globalise the business compared with the less profitable strategy of accommodating to the local consumers' needs.

However, it would be untrue:

1. When the strategy is of the multi-domestic one.
2. When the business has entered an industry and has had experience and expertise in that field to satisfy both global and national/local consumers' needs.
3. When there are more profitability in promoting diversity of the products or services nationally rather than standardising them globally.

### 3. Evaluate factors impacting the choice of entry strategies (lecture 5c)

The factors that are to be considered when deciding entry strategies would be included in the formulation of strategy goals, i.e., the external environment and the internal resource analysis of strengths and weaknesses, as the contents below:

1. Global risks. There will be political, economic, energy (for production) availability and prices, shifting production and consumption, currency wars, and varying fiscal strategies. They provide the context for entering, therefore should be considered firstly.
2. Regional risks. There would be some regions that are less stable or unstable, and the instability of finance in the economy, as well as economic and fiscal policies implemented poorly. They are more important when entering a market that is more local than is global.
3. National risks. There would or would not be legal protection, technology rights, nationalism/expropriation, trade restrictions, repatriation policies, corruption, and natural disasters. All of them would affect the above two factors.
4. The profitability, marketing, operations, finance and human resources of the business, all of which should be considered as internal resource analysis. They determine whether a business would have the capability to implement, successfully, its entry strategies.