---
subject: Language and Communication for Business and Commerce
login-link: https://my.griffith.edu.au/
username: S5105555
password: YNWA2021.
ref-style: 
requirements-1: 请先完成 essay 的 outline 部分，详情查看 outline 的文件 请在北京时间 03.30 16:00 完成
requirements-2: essay作业要求从第 18 页开始
---
status: #unsubmitted 
link: [[GU#^f33b09]]

---

### Outline

1. Introduction
This article investigates the current widespread situation of English over the world, and is especially devoted to English used in international workplace and meetings as a lingua franca. Summaries of results are conducted and listed in the article, from a questionnaire to acquire the awareness of the current use of English for International Business (EIB). The author attempts to contribute to current literature in the field in which this article serves as valuable information that might be used by other researchers. In the article, the author also found that while there are numerous challenges in the workplace to use English as the standard way of communication, there are also some opportunities and strategies to overcome such challenges, provided and supported by many participants of this research.

2. Rationale, Methodology, Epistemology and Context of the study
The research is carried out based on the rationale that the English is, among many other languages that were or have been increasingly valued as well as used by corporations to operate in the international business market environment, the most prosperous, widely used, and widely accepted in the world today. The author used a questionnaire to interview the participants who voluntarily offered their experiences, so, the article employed an qualitative argument. Also the author in this article is holding a pragmatic stance, and the context and background of the study are clearly described and chosen carefully within a comparatively small area which gives credibility to the article and which gives sufficient data for analysis.

3. Findings, and Its Relation to China
Findings are concluded with perspectives from native English speaker (NES) data and Non-native English speaker (NNES) data, which ensures that the results can be validated as not biased towards a single point of view. Moreover, the conclusions are reached on the basis of these findings are thus validated. In the case of China, The understanding is thus made with the fact that there are multiple international corporations from abroad operating its business in China, and that EIB could be thus adopted by these corporations to enhance their performance, especially during the meetings to dissolve conflicts.

4. Conclusions
This article is of great value in that it sheds light on the current communication issues present and prevalent at workplace, worldwide. With the thorough analysis of the author's research processes and results, findings of  this article could be transferred into the Chinese context of international business.

### 1. Introduction



### 2. Body

3

### 3. Conclusion

