---
subject: Everyday Digital Media
login-link: https://canvas.sydney.edu.au/
username: bjia5871
password: Joycelai1029
ref-style: APA 7th
requirements-1: 
---
link: [[USYD#^d1ced3]]

---

3. Identity scholars such as Goffman (1959) have long argued that the self plays multiple roles in everyday life and cannot be understood adequately as a single unified entity, Rather than there being One True Self, variations of which are inherently false, contemporary scholars have come to see the self as flexible and mutable, taking different incarnations in different situations.

This quote above is written by Nancy K. Baym, and it appears in her book, *Personal Connections in the Digital Age.*

This quote is directly from the chapter titled "Disembodied Identities". The concept of Disembodied Identities is mainly about the abstract process of regarding one's identities from one's body which is corporeal and existing in the physical world. This point of view is actually an progressed view of the body as separated from the mind, that is, seeing one's identities as purely mental, and that in this sense of point of view, one's identity is not a single object that can be viewed and analysed. Instead, this view stresses on the complexity of the mind, which signifies the plurality of the identities - it is more like the Internet, a network, instead of a computer which is only a dot on the Internet.
This stance of coceptualising the identities actually enables any person to be viewed as a separate being, who has one's own uniqueness to that individual. Personally, I have always regarded any individual's identity as separated, or more or less, isolated, because it poses our own interpretations of our "selves" before others' points of view of ourselves. However, as is the case in the discussion the the author of the selected quote suggests, our identities are also affected widely and powerfully by our interactions with others, that is, our identities carry social elements and are constantly shaped by "others" {Baym, 2015 #529}. This idea is further developed by the author following the discussions in the last decade, relating to the idea of "disembodied intimacies" {Hanlon, 2001 #528}. The author also insists in her book that it is such a case in that identities need to be recognised by other people to truly exist since when there is no "others" to validate the existence of the subject, i.e., the person's identities, there would be no such an idea of "identities"; it is inherently included in "identities" that it requires subjects and objects.

4. Identity in social media is often expressed through customization. People who create blogs, homepages, and online profiles can use a variety of digital tokens such as pictures, avatars, icons, nicknames, fonts, music, and video to represent themselves.

This quote above have appeared in the book *A Companion to New Media Dynamics* whose editors are Hartley, J., Burgess, J., & Bruns, A. (2013). The chapter this quote is present is titled "Identity Construction".

The authors in this book was trying to conceptualise the Internet, specifically the national network, in the frameworks of demarcation and analysis. The a priori was not included in the construction and content of the book. Instead, the book was taking a new stance: "the web devices". The web devices are a function provided by the Internet to track any array of URL representing a specified country. In this quote, the authors argue that online identities are a prerequisite for people to represent themselves and their different "selves" on the Internet. People rely on their online identities to navigate in the specified context, whether it is cultural, academic, or national or any otherwise, of the social circles that they have formed online. People have different social circles online, and people target different online groups to construct their own identities using their avatars, profiles, etc to construct their circles which inevitably affects the process of their own identities' construction {Hartley, 2013 #530}. It is difficult though, to verify whether these profiles are true; many of them might turn out to be fake accounts and bots. Therefore, I would agree the authors' stance about online identity construction process is viable due to customisation, and that these customisations are not the people's real identities behind those. It is evident though that such debates around authenticity, verifiableness and other socially constructed items online would be highly dependent on the context, and therefore it only strengthens the argument of authenticity which is people pursue in real life but acts differently on the web.

5. Every participant in a communicative act has an imagined audience. Audiences are not discrete; when we talk, we think we are speaking only to the people in front of us or on the other end of the telephone, but this is in many ways a fantasy.

This quote is directly appeared on the article written by Marwick, A. E., & Boyd, D. in their "I tweet honestly, I tweet passionately: Twitter users, context collapse, and the imagined audience" that was published in 2011, on the  _New Media & Society_, volume 13, issue 1, page 114 to page 133. It mainly discusses the concept of "multi audiences" who are present on social media, which leads to people's inability to deliver themselves in the same way as they have done on the Internet, that means, in day to day face to face communications. The article investigates, too, the ways that these producers online of ideas, ideologies, fashion, trends, and other contents used to create their so-called "imaginary/imagined audiences", on the Internet, in the case of Twitter. The techniques were adopted not only by them, though; they are employed by others, such as brands promoting their products online, and other online celebrities, or in other words, key opinion leaders, who work on a smaller scale of influence.
This idea of imagined audiences is not a recently proposed idea in such an age. If considering other media, i.e., more "traditional" media, there have been traces of the same or similar traits of existence of such an idea. The newer media, though, just inherited this idea and promotes it in a different style, in a more diversified and complex manner {Marwick, 2011 #531}. For example, users of Twitter imagine they are communicating directly with the other people on the other end of the Internet, which is also the case for online communities, such as the hashtags that people use on Twitter, which comprises of different opinions and groups that are born afterwards. I, therefore, concur, and supports the idea of the nonexistence in a physical manner of the audiences online, which is discussed in this article.

8. First, memes may best be understood as pieces of cultural information that pass along from person to person, but gradually scale into a shared social phenomenon. Although they spread on a micro basis, their impact is on the macro level: memes shape the mindsets, forms of behavior, and actions of social groups.

This quote selected above is from the openly accessible article titled "Memes in a Digital World: Reconciling with a Conceptual Troublemaker", by the author Shifman, L. on the _Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication_, volume 18, the third issue, page 362 to page 377, in 2013. The author investigated in the article the essence of memes as well as the role it plays in such a world nowadays that is constantly and continually digitised. The author argues in this quote that memes should be regarded as small elements that carry social and cultural information, which leads to later a much wider range of influence as an equivalent of a "shared social phenomenon" {Shifman, 2013 #532}. The ideas that the author proposed in this article also include the different ways that memes adopt to evolve, such as imitation. The imitating process creates not only creativity, a sense of novelty, but also a sense of familiarity, from my personal p0int of view. This idea of mine is to explain the ability of memes to spread and self-reproduce: people respond not only to what they do not know, but also to what they have already known, which lead to activities of social groups since such a group shares something in common which provides them with a sense of familiarity. Thus I agree with with the author's point of view.