---
subject: Media and social change
login-link: https://my.monash/campusm/home
username: qyan0025@student.monash.edu
password: DQyqh960508.
ref-style: Harvard
requirements-1: Explainer Video(2-3mins) + 1300 字 Summary
requirements-2: 视频由我们直接完成，不需要露脸
---
link: [[MONASH#^9c404d]]

## Explainer Video (2-3 mins)

### Introduction (30 secs)
- [x] Overview of topic being examined and why it is important to explore how it has been represented in the media.

### Analysis and Findings (1.5-2 mins)

- [x] Summary of news media sample that you studied.
- [x] Summary of the result of your media analysis.

### Conclusion (30 secs)

- [x] Implications: a brief summary of key insight/takeaway.


---


## Summary

- [x] Revised summary of topic being examined. What are you examining and why? How did you refine and revise this?
- [x] Revised rationale for sample of news texts. What texts are you comparing and why? How did you refine and revise this?
- [x] Final results of your qualitative discourse analysis, backed up with evidence from the sample and scholarly texts (5 at minimum).
- [x] Final full sample of the news articles being analysed: reference list and full text copies of the 10-15 news articles being analysed.
- [x] Rationale for creative and communication decisions made in the video (e.g. who was your target audience and why, what tone did you use and why, what visuals or graphics used, etc).

---

### 1. Revised Summary

As the world is constantly progressing into a state in which sustainability is getting more and more importance, the idea of climate change also raises growing concerns over the globe. Climate change is, according to scientists, one of the most serious problems that need to be resolved as early and urgently as possible in the 21 century {Wong, 2016 #812}. And, of all the disasters that caused national and global worry, the most recent should be the Australian bushfires in 2020. Even when on January 7th, in 2020, there had been burned more than 6.3 million hectares of land, and considering that the size of a sports field is 1 hectare, this bushfires was massive even at that time. Although Australia has its "fire seasons", this bushfires disaster was a lot worse than the previous ones {BBC News, 2020 #811}. 

Global media, traditional or modern, social or official, have been all paying heed to the development of it, and they are all reporting the bushfires with different sources of information, as well as from varied perspectives. Such a situation should be studies more closely, because different ways of reporting would affect the audience's perceptions of the same incident, and thus creates information gaps. The reason that this study needs to be carried out is that the bushfires disaster could be used as an exemplar for media analysis, since people nowadays depend highly on media to get to know the world around them. With this as the context, the scepticism that arises from doubting the human impact on climate change would have found a possible way to be addressed and investigated.

### 2. Revised Rationale

This research would be based on the investigation conducted on mass media and their ways of reporting the 2019/2020 Australian bushfires. It is found by searching and browsing that the mass media responds to the same issue in different ways, and these different reports would be here in this research compared and studied, in the context that the topic has triggered global concerns over climate change and what normal human beings can do to about it. The texts would be chosen everywhere from online newspapers, to  journal articles in economic analysis, and such. The usage of data would be able to be analysed since they are all concerned about the same issue: Australian bushfires. Moreover, the media samples that are going to be studied in this project include the 10 news articles from BBC, National Geographic, the Guardian, all three of which are trustworthy sources of information and have been renowned in the media and journalism industry.

The research would conduct its appraisal from the following criteria: stance, or rather, point of view embedded in the reporting, and means by which they convey the information, which could be called "channels", i.e. the ways they describe and depict the disaster, its effects, and its implications, and I would focus on the function of photos and pictures as well as their intended usage. All of the 10 articles would be categorised by their publishers, and would be compared in terms of likelihood and differences with articles from other publishers which features the same or similar topic.

### 3. Final Results

In my analysis, all three online media publishers have utilised photos as one of their most powerful channel to convey the information as to the bushfires crisis. BBC used photos that are more of the documentary style, and have used illustrated maps that show directly to its readers with sufficient information to know what have happened in Australia. This kind of technique is often used in mass media to convey information so as the report would receive its intended authenticity and trustworthiness. And with ever-progressing processes undertaken by technology, it is becoming more and more easier to reedit the photos to transform the meaning as well as the emotions and sentiments that those photos could trigger. Such has been researched in terms of photojournalism {Lyford, 2005 #823}. This idea has been practiced in photographing for women, in which the mass media would enable itself with this technique to convey the "ideal beauty", "ideal body", etc {Rollero, 2015 #817}. In the sense of this bushfires crisis, it could be seen that the mass media, including BBC, National Geographic, and the Guardian, all three of them have utilised this technique to transform the original picture into some other form, something that triggers the emotions of horror, fear, and most importantly of all, compassion. For example, in one of the BBC News's report, the opening photo for the article is clearly retouched and has expressed a sense of worry, loneliness, separateness, and anxiety due to the photo's retouched yellowishness and the wide landscape that made it look almost like a desert {BBC News, 2020 #818}.

Images, pictures and photos are gaining more and more power to give form, to transform, and to lead public sentiment and certain reactions to a certain subject or object. And the modern journalism is enabled to use the photo editing techniques and empower itself to create modern "mind drama". There have been researches about the use of images in mass media, and the idea of "self-portrait of power" is discussed, as the photos themselves, and the photos after being edited, are themselves able to empower themselves to tranform the information that is intended to be conveyed. The retouching and reediting thus has made it possible for the mass media to generate new meaning from the sheer alone bushfires crisis to create new crises, in people's minds {Lyford, 2005 #823}.

On the other hand, the photos that were presented in the reports would increase the understanding of the seriousness of the incident in the audience's minds. In one of the reports by the BBC News, the main colour of several photos are in strong red. Red is often linked with blood, horror, war, severity, and other elements in human life that are more in a negative context, in human mind and perspective. The usage of red, or the choices that pointed them out was not a coincidence. The social media, instead of the mass media, have long been in a fashion to use filters which add a certain layers of hues of colour over an original copy of photo. The desired result is to create ideological preferences {Young, 2018 #821}. Similar patterns have been used in tourism and related news articles to promote the tourism industry in a given country or city {Lo, 2011 #820}. This technique of using photos to create certain patterns of psychological agreement is identified as content-based and context-specific {Münzer, 2018 #822}.

