---
subject: Introduction to Strategic Communication
login-link: https://my.uq.edu.au/
username: s4579146
password: dmq010308
ref-style: APA
requirements-1: 
---
link: [[UQ#^095852]]

---

# Case Study Analysis of DrinkWise's Kids Absorb Your Drinking Campaign in 2008

## 1. Assignment 2: Case Study Analysis

The studied campain, _Kids Absorb Your Drinking_, was initially launched in 2008, which has for DrinkWise Australia embarked upon the first stage of bringing more attention from people on the issues that are related the youngsters absorption of alcohols, and was anticipated be influencing the majority of people's idea and attitudes towards drinking, on a generational scale. This campaign has illustratively describe the correlation between kid's drinking behaviour in the light of their parents' drinking habits. Such a campaign has been successful since it focuses upon the roles that parents play in their kids' life, and it has also promoted the self-awareness of their own behaviours and the might-be problems, issues, and implications. Therefore, the campaign was carried out to increase their awareness of their true self and undestanding that the consumers' sense of being protect by the producers in the sense that corporations have obligations to their stakeholders which comprises of customers and other consumers. Moreover, the idea of such a campaign is in line with DrinkWise Australia's business vision that is to "promote a generational change in the way Australians consume alcohol" {DrinkWise Australia, 2021 #883}. In this research then, the PRIA model, Smith's Planning Process, as well as the Barcelona Principles would be used to analyse the DrinkWise Australia's plan to promote more social awareness about the issue of kids alcohol absoption. It is found there would be more implementation in terms of details would be able to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of this campaign.

## 2. Literature Review

A detailed literature review would be in favour of the investigation in this analysis, which entails the importance to assess and reappraise the DrinkWise Kids Absorb Your Drinking campaign. This literature review provides a not highly thorough but detailed understanding of the case using some public relations best practice frameworks, with comprehensiveness and the quality of being in depth. The chosen three analysis models include the PRIA model, Smith's Planning Process, as well as the Barcelona Principles. The reasons as to why having chosen these three models are first and foremost the more exhaustive and wider understanding could be provided in the analysis, which would increase the persuasiveness of this analysis report. The PRIA, an abbreviation of Public Relations Institute of Australia, uses the criterion to assess ten aspects of the campaign for this case study. This set of criterion is to recognise excellent, professionalism and best practiced public relations campaign in the industry of public relations, and the ten assessment factors are to provide a thorough, as complete as possible, and detailed analysis and will be referred to in this analysis.

The Smith's Planning Process, which is composed of the four stages of planning: formative research, strategy, tactics and evaluation, would be providing an overview of the significance of the meticulously planned campaign proposal and it stresses upon the accuracy as well as preciseness.  The formative research analyses the situation, the organisation, and the public that is campaign is in; the strategy analysis focuses on the goals and objectives of the campaign, as well as actions, responses, and other strategies along the way; the tactics are about the choosing process of the communication techniques and channels, which is more related to the implementation stage of the campaign; and there is the evaluative research that would enable the ability to evaluate the outcome, i.e. failure or success, of the plan that is strategically managed as indicated above {Smith, 2021 #885}.

The Barcelona Declaration of Measurement Principles, however, is more focused upon the appropriateness of the goal of a campaign, which would ensure the ethics of the campain and that the goals are set in a balanced way {Macnamara, 2014 #886}. This analysis would incorporate such three techniques that all emphasise different areas to conduct and proceed, which would be provided as comprehensive and accurate to a certain extent.

## 3. Analysis
### 3.1 Section 1: Background

DrinkWise Australia is a non-profit organisation that is founded in 2005, which came with the goal to build a more balanced and healthier drinking culture in Australia {DrinkWise Australia, 2021 #883}. According to the PRIA framework, the campaign, Kids Absorb Your Drinking, did not have a clearly defined objective, as to who are the targeted publics, who are the key ones in them, and the justification of why these people are targeted and focused upon {Public Relations Institute of Australia, 2017 #887}. 

This situation analysis would help understand the poor or lightly regulated of the abusive use of alcohol and DrinkWise Australia's poor reputation. It could be found that DrinkWise Australia had realised their situation and had had some basic clue as to the misuse or abuse of alcohol in Australia. The situation had caused public attention and were discussed. The situation is to be understood, too, with Smiths' model of "analysing" which would be providing more information for improving DrinkWise Australia's clarity of vision.

The Reputation Group (TRG) has completed their background strategy to identify the issues which according to the models would fit and satisfy Smith's criteria for research, but they did not conduct a thorough analysis on DrinkWise Australia. According to Smith, it would be favourable to analyse internal environments to meet the public's perception. Therefore, TRG proposed to elevate DrinkWise Australia's reputation but it would not be viable if not provided with better analysis of the organisation, since the data is in no way to be gained for the people who were going to actually implement the campaign.

However, it is worth mentioning and investigating that TRG have provided with details about the ways that they reach the public that were targeted in objective setting process, and thus have, empowered by proper and extensive research, defined their key publics, with a strong statement that is clear about who the key publics are, and have explained in detail and justified the reason for choosing the selected focused publics. 

### 3.2 Section 2: The Issue

This section, the issue, is to provide information as the how the research is planned and implemented prior to any changes in the communication strategy as to why there has been these issues that are exposed. The research would be in line with the Golden Target Award's *Research* criterion. The formative research is to understand the audience and thus to find a better way to reach them. Therefore, according to the PRIA standards, the research is to a high extent effective because it was able to provide relevant information to identify and comprehend the targeted audience, and thus to provide related, available, as well as viable ways to reach them, i.e. effective communication channels {Public Relations Institute of Australia, 2017 #887}. There was, however, a somewhat vaguely defined mission or vision statement. According to the Smith's model, the issues for an organisation should always be as clearly defined as possible, since it would be providing the ground on which the strategy could be illustrated and the company could be better positioned, which would in turn influence the implementation and the strategic planning process of the campaign {Smith, 2021 #885}.

Therefore, although it was, based on the PRIA approach, quite effective in terms of the audience defining and reaching processes, the effectiveness is weakened and more or less mitigated by the unclear positioning of the company and the campaign with the unclear issues definition according to the Smith's model.

### 3.3 Section 3: The Strategy

Based on the PRIA's criteria, it could be argued through this analysis that the strategy as to communication is inefficient and ineffective. The reason is that it does not provide insights to the implementation process. According to the model of PRIA and the method of Smith's, the strategies should be clearly defined and more importantly, should be structured, so as to provide insights and recommendations to the every step in the implementation of the campaign, in the long run, since mostly this Kids Absorb Your Drinking Campaign would be in a long-term duration processes to activate the targeted audience's awareness of the social and societal (structural) issue as to youngster drinking behaviours. The entire chain would be engaged by the organisation with clear and effective practising, however the strategy defining process is poorly developed.

Moreover, the tactics that were provided were not addressing some key effect that is to be anticipated to take place. This would not be in favour of the campaign since the appropriateness would be compromised due to that very reason. Besides, the strategies were quite ambiguous. Strategies are first and foremost carried out in research to enable and empower action in terms of nearly all business operations even though this organisation is not for profit in type and essence as an organisation {Morley, 2014 #825}. This means that it would be unclear as to how the information and message deliver channels were to be set, what are to be anticipated in engagement of the key opinion leaders and what would be the issues that would arise in the implementation and possible risk mitigation strategies since a campaign is always in battle with uncertainty {Courtney, 1997 #640}.

### 3.4 Section 4: The Execution

According to the PRIA, the implementation or execution process should be clearly articulated as to be more concise but more effective for nearly all the processes in the implementation section. However, there could not be seen much information related to this, but there were more about the announcement and launch information. These two were useful for the campaign since they play the role of delivering messages about the organisation image, but they would not provide information to the audience, and the targeted publics who are to be considered first. That is evidenced by the author not mentioning how to utilising the communication channels and etc. Therefore, the execution section is incomplete and inefficient.

### 3.5 Section 5: Results and Evaluation

This analysis and implementation only provide little insight to the short term performance of the campaign which was and should be long term. The campaign announcement and launch party are two evidences. The situation analysis is too focused on the process that are on the early stage of the campaign implementation and planning, but does not permit the possibility of transmuting these messages into actual public awareness which is the sole essence of this campaign. Therefore, under all three models used this situation analysis in incomplete.

## 4. Recommendations

1. Redefine the process and the current goal that would influence the overall performance of this campaign.
2. Provide a second objective for the management of the firm reputation.
3. Using SMART analysis to identify the objective and make it relevant as well as measurable.
4. Redefine the communication strategies, so as to make a new framework that would assist the implementation of the campaign along the processes.
5. Redefine the targeted publics: identify all the relevant audience as to the social and societal issues of abuse and misuse of alcohols in the young, and to create a new framework for this guided execution of the campaign.



