---
subject: The Digital Economy
login-link: https://my.griffith.edu.au/
username: 
password: 
ref-style: 
requirements-1: 1500 字正文 + 150 字 executive summary
requirements-2: organisation 任选
---
link: [[GU#^8b0a6e]]

---

## Executive Summary

This report is aimed at the in-depth investigation as to the effect that digital economy is going to have on the company, Cotton On Clothing Pty Ltd that works in the fast fashion industry and that operates its business mainly in the clothing retailing industry in Australia.

The report would provide relevant information, such as relevant information of digital economy, the company, and would apply a sufficient amount of literature in the field to provide authenticity and reliability for the report. Therefore, the report would also recommend some ways that Cotton On Clothing could utilise when facing disruptions by technologies, and these methods would be viable.

## Introduction of the Company

The company chosen for this report is Cotton On Clothing, belong to the Cotton On Group Australia, which is one of the world's leading corporations in the fashion industry. Administered by its head office in Geelong, Victoria, and located in Victoria, Australia, the company has been merchandising in both menswear and womenswear {EBSCO Industries Inc,  #561}. As a locally owned, private company, Cotton On Clothing Pty Ltd generates revenue from retail sale of clothing and consumer goods. The company has nearly up to now 9,980 people and has been conducting its business in 18 countries on every continent on the planet. Seven brands are owned, as well as managed by the company, including Cotton On, Cotton On Kids, Cotton On Body, Rubi, Typo, Factorie, and Supre {IBISWorld, 2020 #897}.

Holding about 31.3% of the market share, the company, Cotton On Clothing Pty Ltd (Cotton On Clothing) mainly operates in the fast fashion industry in Australia, with its business line in the Clothing Retailing industry in Australia {IBISWorld, 2020 #898}.

## Introduction to the Report

This report aims to investigate the challenges of the digital economy for Cotton On Clothing's executive group with regard to their management strategies and risk situation analysis. With identifying and addressing the potential changes in the digital economy area and challenges that come together with them, this report is of value in that it provides insights as to sectors of trade, workforce, technological capability or digital capability, customers and stakeholders. This report would address a range of relevant literature to identify the challenges, and would provide recommendations for Cotton On Clothing's executive group to assist their decision making process.

## Identification of Potential Challenges

The digital economy is the broad scope that is supported by its internal structures, i.e. the Information Technology (IT) and the Information and Communication (ICT) Sector {Bukht, 2017 #899}. The infrastructure, supported by IT and ICT devices, services, hardware and installations, have been more and more transforming the world economy. Various new ways of marketing and modes of economic activities have been emerging, and the idea of sharing economy, platform economy, gig economy etc are brought to the attention and highlight of the public's views which has become a panorama instead of a close-up shot.

Therefore, corporations must react to this transformation, or rather, transmutation, of economy, and strategically implement as well as plan their business operations. In the fashion industry in Australia in which Cotton On Clothing operates, it is more of being such a case than not {IBISWorld, 2020 #898}. The rise of social media has validated that it is with huge potential, but also with huge risks {Voorveld, 2018 #668}. And, in the business operations sector, the logistics and stock replenishment has been also an increasingly serious issue for Cotton On Clothing. That is because Cotton On Clothing has only one distribution centre in Avalon, Melbourne, which is in control of all its stock replenishment and shipment operation {Cotton On Group, 2021 #563}. That has led to the stock out situation in some of the retail stores of the company, for example, in one of its busiest flagship store. The reason resides in the inefficiency of the entire supply chain as well as the value chain of the company, since there has always been the issue of the stock replenishment is either not enough or exceed the needed amount of stock, which leads to the insufficiency of the store space {EBSCO Industries Inc,  #561}.

One of the most important reasons that have caused such a situation is that Cotton On Clothing has not yet deployed a Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) software to its value chain. There would be a huge amount of information and data that need to be retrieved and sent, and it would not be enough for the distribution centre to take control of all of these processes if they do it manually. And, although the company has installed some software that help to organise the stock in the distribution centre, there is no syncing of the data among the distribution centre and the company's stores whether in Australia alone, or in the world.

That means the company, Cotton On Clothing, has not yet embraced much the digital economy. There are a few challenges, therefore, for Cotton On Clothing, regarding trade, revenue, workforce, customers and stakeholders. The overall performance of the company would be impacted, then, and they will be addressed in the next section.

## Justification of the Identification

First of all, it would disastrous for the flagship store since it would meet the two possible outcomes: being out of stock, or that store room or space becomes less and insufficient for clothing display. This is directly linked to the losses in profits and the profitability of stocks for Cotton On Clothing. If there is no stock available, the store would not have the item of clothing to sell, that leads to direct profit loss; If the stock exceeds the needed amount, the space of the store would not be enough, and thus there must be less display areas which could have been used for attracting customers and retaining them. That means less trade. Furthermore, the company, the direct loss of profit at the retail store would leads to the company's profits since Cotton On Clothing operates in the clothing retailing industry {IBISWorld, 2020 #897}. The reason lays in the inefficient supply chain whose resilience is weakened by the poor performance of data exchange {Garay-Rondero, 2019 #903}. Also, in terms of revenue, the company's ability to generate revenue through retail stores would be weakened, too, due to that revenues are in line with profits. While profits drops and costs rise because the replenishment has not been successful or ideal, revenue would decrease, along with profits.

Secondly, the workforce would be in the ongoing cycle of wrong and inaccurate replenishment. That leads to decreased, or even decreasing, efficiency and effectiveness. Cotton On Clothing, as a fashion company, would not gaining any profit or reputation through unproductive employees. Moreover, the employees would be insufficient if there is stock out situation and consumers are still coming. That is, if the stock has not been enough because of the data is not digitised and communicated by using technology, there would be stock out situation, and store staffs would be insufficient in face of the demand of customers. Moreover, such a case of being reassigned to work back to store when it was supposed to be rest time would leads to decreased employee satisfaction which influences the company's revenue.

From the perspective of stakeholder theory, too, the company should be responsible towards their customers as well as their employees. Stakeholder theory is an approach that is often used in strategic management {Freeman, 2010 #545}. It entails to be responsible for the problems, and be dedicated to change the course of action to correct them. The not deploying data services and enabling syncing via digital technologies are, to a certain extent, not performing corporate social responsibility (CSR) which is deeply embedded in corporate governance {Reddy, 2009 #647}. 

It could be argued, too, to digitise the value chain would also enable Cotton On Clothing to have more presence online, such as on Instagram, Twitter, etc. Social media has been proven to be an effective way to promote sales and business performance {Appel, 2020 #669}. Literature has investigated and concluded that digitisation of business operations would increase a company's performance in terms of nearly all facets {Felix, 2017 #666}. Although Cotton On Clothing is utilising this opportunity, but it is not enough to only digitise marketing {IBISWorld, 2020 #897}.

## Recommendations

It is concluded by the previous analysis, therefore, that it would be an imperative for Cotton On Clothing to transform its entire value chain via digital channels. That is, to digitise its data, marketing, planning, and other operations and share the data among all its stores to its distribution centre.

Three recommendation could be given:
1. It is recommended to utilise the power of digital economy by installing an ERP software or system to all its value chain to enhance its data efficiency, as well as to improve its financial performance.
2. It is advised to start to collect data from employees and customers about digitisation of business operations, including sales, promotion, etc, and to conclude from the data to see what are the demand of the company's two biggest stakeholders: employees and customers.
3. To promote its products online to increase the brand value, either by online advertising, promotion, interviewing, etc, to generate more revenues by increasing the number of online shopping, which avoids the potential risk in the stock replenishment process.