---
subject: Create Advertising
login-link: https://esoe.qut.edu.au/qut-login/
username: n10626727
password: Yuan440063
ref-style: 
requirements-1: 
---
status: #unsubmitted 
link: [[QUT#^41990e]]

---

Hemingway’s Brewery is a destination craft brewery in Port Douglas, which since opening in January 2016, has re-energised the township with its range of craft beers, each inspired by local legends. Originally Hemingway’s intended  to sell its beers through bottle shops, however the destination proved so popular they continually sold all capacity. **Hemingway’s is about to open a second destination brewery at the old Cairns Cruise Terminal site with four times the production capacity. Its range of six fine craft beers is available now, for the first time out of Port Douglas.**

# Cover Page
# Creative Strategy

Product: Hemingway's Brewery Craft Beers

Product description: Hemingway's Brewery has decided to open a new kind of destination brewery where it will sell one of the company's best selling, fine craft Brewery Craft Beers. Hemingway's Brewery is well known for the history in its products, each of which carry their unique historical value since they are all inspired by the local legends.

Target consumer: People who live near, or travel to, the old Cairns Cruise Terminal site, who have a strong attachment to the 20th century, with an enthusiasm for high quality and fine craft, brewery beers. Have time for listening to and capacity for understanding of the stories behind the products. Joyful, with a heart that is pursuing big stories, or that is trying to become one.

Product benefits: Big flavoured. Stories and historical value embedded in the product. Provide joyfulness and enthusiasm for people who are "old-fashioned" and who love high quality products.

Principal benefit or promise to the consumer: The big stories are now in the drinker's hands, and are to be toasted when the story is told.

Support or reason why this benefit is possible: Hemingway's Brewery is well known for its high quality, fine craft, brewery beers with history embedded. The stories are revived through the products of Hemingway's Brewery.

Tone of the advertising: Legendary, story-telling tone, enthusiastic, memorable, energetic

Brand character: Historical, high quality reassured, enthusiastic for stories and legends, big flavoured.

Creative Strategy Statement:

Advertising will persuade people who have a strong attachment to the past, especially the 20th century, and who are enthusiastic for life and high quality beers, especially the fine craft, big flavoured ones. Hemingway's Brewery Craft Beers would enable these people to celebrate their history and their stories, with holding a beer that is also with its own history, and to toast with others, which is itself a new story that will be told in the future. Support will be that Hemingway's Brewery has been a success since it opened its first brewery near the Port Douglas, and had sold out all the capacity. Tone will be story-telling, enthusiastic, energetic.

# Rationale of Big Idea and main creative elements

# Copy Deck

Advertising Problem:

Our target audience is unaware that a new brewery store is going to be opened at the old Cairns Cruise Terminal site.

Advertising Objectives:

To increase awareness of the new Hemingway's Brewery Craft Beers to the people who arrive at the spot and who would like history as well as stories.

Distinctive feature/USP/SMP:

The legends and stories are in the consumers' hands and will be toasted and taken.

Target audience:

Advertising will persuade people who have a strong attachment to the past, especially the 20th century, and who are enthusiastic for life and high quality beers, especially the fine craft, big flavoured ones.

Target competition:

There is no direct competition at the new site. However, it is possible that there would be other types of beers that consumers would go for in case that they do not prefer or fancy big flavoured beers.

Positioning:

The beer would provide consumers with a sense of being with legends and history, and thus add flavours to the consumers' life which is also provided by the big flavoured beer.

Creative strategy:

Advertising will persuade people who have a strong attachment to the past, especially the 20th century, and who are enthusiastic for life and high quality beers, especially the fine craft, big flavoured ones. Hemingway's Brewery Craft Beers would enable these people to celebrate their history and their stories, with holding a beer that is also with its own history, and to toast with others, which is itself a new story that will be told in the future. Support will be that Hemingway's Brewery has been a success since it opened its first brewery near the Port Douglas, and had sold out all the capacity. Tone will be story-telling, enthusiastic, energetic.

Execution:

The ad is set in print format and will be distributed to the local stores at the site.

Supporting copy points:

Hemingway's Brewery is a destination craft brewery in Port Douglas and has been a success from 2016 with positioning in telling big stories through big flavoured beers.