---
subject: Strategic Management
login-link: https://canvas.sydney.edu.au/
username: bjia5871
password: Joycelai1029
ref-style: APA 6th
requirements-1: 
---
link: [[USYD#^d4a19e]]

---

- [x] Analyse Rio Tinto's current state and suggest possible strategic directions in light of the appointment of a new CEO. 
- [x] Analyse the **external environment** of Rio Tinto, identifying opportunities and threats
- [x] Analyse Rio Tinto's resources, capabilities, and core competencies, identifying strengths and weaknesses
- [x] Evaluate Rio Tinto's current strategy and provide recommendations of possible strategic directions to achieve competitive advantage in the future
- [x] Use PESTEL, Porter, Value Chain, VRIO, SWOT.

- [x] Front Page, Student ID, Word Count
- [x] Charts, tables and graphs.



### Executive Summary, 100-150 (key issues, summary of the evaluation of Rio Tinto's future, recommendations)

This report is carried out to investigate the current issues in the mining industry and the company that would have profound implications for Rio Tinto. As the analysis below demonstrates, there are low possibility that there will be new entrants and competitors in the mining industry for Rio Tinto, and there would be less harsh regulations imposed upon the mining industry. Therefore, in the background that the industry is influenced by both issues related to inbound and outbound logistics, it is recommended that the corporation endorses environmental stewardship and focus more on Corporate Social Responsibility to promote its revenue making abilities and its social image.

### Introduction (background, outline of structure)

The corporation, Rio Tinto Plc - Rio Tinto Limited (Rio Tinto), is a local based company that mainly operates in the mining industry in Australia and is founded in 1873. Ranking the third out of the top 2000 companies, the company has been generating its revenue mainly from the Metal Ore Mining industry, from which the total revenue of the company reached $59 billion in 2020 alone {IBISWorld, 2021 #850}. The company has its multiple subsidiaries around the world, and it has 47500 employees in total, administers its business operations from its head office registered in London and Melbourne, and works in 35 countries {Rio Tinto, 2021 #851}.

However, Rio Tinto has announced, in September, 2020, that it would have three members of the corporation's Executive Committee step down, due to the destruction of the Juukan rockshelter, in May, 2020, which is of high value for archaeology and culture studies {IBISWorld, 2021 #850}. And with the COVID-19 pandemic has gone viral in the entire world, the corporation has announced it has to take some patience in mining operation {IBISWorld, 2021 #850}.


### External Analysis

It is vital to determine what the current situation is for the corporation, in this case to be Rio Tinto. The reasons are multiple, but are here mainly that the stepping down of three former members of the Executive Committee and the new appointment of a CEO is going to have impact on the corporation's business operations and strategies which are used for navigating in the industry environment. Therefore, it is of great importance to analyse the industry as the external environment for Rio Tinto.

#### General Environment Analysis

Three analysis tools would be utilised in this section, since they provide insights as to what the general situations are for Rio Tinto.

##### PESTLE Analysis
###### Political Factors

The political factors include regulations and polices that are imposed upon the mining industry in Australia, as well as upon Rio Tinto. It is reported that the level of regulation on the general mining industry is heavy, and this trend of heavy regulation is very likely to continue steadily in the future. That means the state and the territory governments in Australia are concerned about as well as are responsible for issues related to the regulations of the industry, because nearly every operations that happen in the industry would have both economic and environmental implications, and most of the regulations are administered from the mineral or resources department of the local governments {IBISWorld, 2021 #852}. The regulations would, of course, vary among governments, but they tend to be similar. It is because the industry is concerned with resources that would be allocated and used for developmental purposes of other industries, that is, the mining industry is a crucial source of raw materials for other industries to function properly. As such an important factor in the supply chains of other industries, regulations would be coerced upon companies in the mining industry, since either insufficient mining or over mining would impact other industries that are vital to the human world.

And, the mining industry would need to deal with the political changes in Australia. With the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the politics would focus on transferring more resources to generating values and revenues within the country itself rather than to ally with other countries, since it has become a serious problem to deliver shipping. The politics would favour more on the mining industry since it generates not only value for the country, but also direct revenues.

###### Economic Factors

The economic output is not quite optimistic according to the current widespread COVID-19 pandemic. As the world economy is slowing down its progress due to the pandemic, the mining industry is predicted as to be focused more on the output quality and productivity in the future 5 years {IBISWorld, 2021 #852}. The major influences are the weak capital expenditure since the industries and corporations are more involved in exploring currently but there would not be enough fund for the company to invest more on exploration. The more viable solution is such an environment would be to focus on the quality of the mining output so that there would still be enough revenue generated from better utilised current resources.

###### Social Factors

The mining industry has always been regarded as harmful to human health by the majority of people, and it is very much the actual case. The mining industry has impact on the environment, hugely, and that is why it is to be regulated heavily with strict restrictions. The underlying problem is more on the company's social responsibility, or rather, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). The mining industry has always been complained by people, being accused of polluting the air and water by releasing waste, toxic gas and liquid into the air and the water source. And with the current outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, the concerns of people about health issues would only increase to a larger scale. The industry is not looking optimistic for Rio Tinto, therefore, and the implication that this situation has would require the company to invest more on building its responsibilities to stakeholders.

###### Technological Factors

The mining industry is a crucial source for many other industries that are deeply connected with everyday life in the human world. To be fair, the mining industry is one of the many sources in the supply chains of those industries. However, many years have seen not much development in the industry in terms of technology and innovation {IBISWorld, 2021 #852}. The huge amount revenues were being used to regenerate themselves instead of being invested into the technological advances in mining techniques and other aspects such as environmental protection which would show the industry's environmental stewardship.

However, for Rio Tinto, there are not quite many chance for other corporations to compete with it. There barriers to entry are significantly high, and the new entrants to the industry has a quite low rate. This indicates that the company would not need to change its strategic direction to face disruptions by new entrants as much as it has to deal with the environment.

###### Legal Factors

The mining industry is under high regulation as has been discussed in the political factors section. However, it is important to note that the industry has not been able to keep up with the trends in the legal factors. The mining industry mainly has an established process that is composed of: initial exploration, detailed exploration&appraisal, and mining {IBISWorld, 2021 #852}. The processes would each need to be approved by the government with granting licenses or leases. The Native Title Act 1994, also known as the Mabo legislation and acknowledging right sof the Indigenous people of Australia thus permits the state governments and the Commonwealth to have power to decide upon problems related to land such as mining {IBISWorld, 2021 #852}. The problem is thus that how corporations in the industry to deal with such regulations since they are not likely to change, in a long run.

###### Environmental Factors

The mining industry is infamous for polluting the environment, because of its nature: mining is to destruct and to produce, and both of the two processes would have serious and profound environmental implications, and that is also why there are serious regulations imposed upon the mining industry. However, the industry would be able to prosper, if it understands that the environmental stewardship would only increase the industry's ability to generate revenues, in the background that the mining industry provides much of crucial resources for other industries that are crucial to human life.

##### Porter's Five Forces

The analysis model of Porter's five forces focus on the exterior environment in which a company operates. The threat of new entrants is actually quite low for Rio Tinto, since there is low possibility for other companies to entry to the industry, let alone to compete with Rio Tinto. And the threat of substitutes would also be quite low, which is because the corporation would be entitled to mine at certain places once the regulatory restrictions are met and leases are received. The resources would be Rio Tinto's in such cases.

Also, there would not be much bargaining power of customers. Customers are consumers of the products Rio Tinto provides, and since the products are from mining, the resources would then nearly entirely in the control of Rio Tinto's. As for the bargaining power of suppliers, it could be argued that the company, Rio Tinto, is itself a supplier, and what Rio Tinto needs from other suppliers would only be devices which the company itself also manufactures. Therefore, the bargaining power of suppliers is quite low, too. And the competitive rivalry would be the part that requires the highest attention from Rio Tinto, since there would other competitors that are already in the market that would provide similar products and services, and who can only be competed with better technologies and strategies.


##### Value Chain Analysis
The value chain analysis would be more focused on the products that Rio Tinto manufactures. The company provides products and services for other companies in diverse industries, and would need to deal with the supply chain risks that are imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic and its outcome: lockdowns and border shutdowns. The inbound and outbound logistics would be highly affected for the products, as well as for the company's services.


### Internal Analysis

#### VRIO Analysis

The value that the company generates is actually dependent upon its rarity as well as the rarity of the mining resources. Therefore, it is more important to develop more viable ways to promote the productivity of the output of the resources instead of on the exporting and mining. However, due to the nature of the industry, the imitability of the corporation is quite low and there would not be many new entrants into the market and the industry, which leads to the conclusion that the operations should focus more on the organisation's internal strategy to promote its own productivity instead of the exterior environment.

#### SWOT Analysis

The strengths of Rio Tinto is in the meantime its weaknesses: the resources are the mining products and thus could not be better utilised to promote the output. Therefore the company should, in such a situation, focus more on its technology to promote its productivity.

### Strategic Recommendation

A corporation must take account of the environment in which it operates, and also must take considerations for its strategy in a complex and ever-changing business/industry environment, as is the case for Rio Tinto at present. This report is carried out, thus, to investigate the current strategic situation the corporation is in, and to provide relevant information as to how to better position the corporation to thrive in the coming future, with a new strategic direction, based on the background that a new Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is appointed.

Therefore, it is recommended that the company focuses more on its environmental stewardship and start to promote its Corporate Social Responsibility. Both of them would increase the company's social image and would increase its profitability and revenue generating ability in the situation that are illustrated above in the analysis.

