---
subject: Emotional Intelligence, Cultural Intelligence and Diversity
login-link: https://elearning.kbs.edu.au/
username: 138489
password: Zwbx0711
ref-style: 
requirements-1: 700字演讲稿+7张PPT+问卷调查（很简单，只是选择）
---
link: [[KBS#^5aaf63]]

---

### Development of your self-awareness
- detail any changes in your **self- awareness level** as a result of the questionnaire activity

I found that in the test that my overall score in taking this questionnaire is 62, and according to the score interpretation on the website, I am an emotionally intelligent person {Mindtools, 2021 #904} {Perloff, 1997 #908}. However, during the process of taking the questionnaire, I have found something that I did not notice about myself.

The most surprisingly, I found I disagree with the question that I tend to avoid conflict and negotiations. surprisingly, I start to be aware of the fact that I, in fact, enjoy conflict and negotiations. I didn't notice that I learn about truths in this way. Conflict to me, is more of a way that is similar to Socrates' refutation. Socrates refutes others to find out what truth might be. I use conflict to find out what I believe to be true and if that is the case in reality. Negotiations are, to me, to know not what I want, but also to know what the other wants, so that I can start to build cooperative relationships with that person. I think I should give it a thought.

### Identification of development areas
- Specify **two** areas for development that you have identified from completing the questionnaire activity
- highlight why these are important to your future career
- Detail a minimum of two strategies that you will put in place to address your identified developmental needs

I think that I should develop my ability to envision my long-term goal, since I do have long-term goals but I haven't visualised them to consolidate my confidence and better implement them, and these steps are proven to be important to the achievement of goals, as described by Hedlund-De Witt {Hedlund-De Witt, 2014 #905} and Walsh {Walsh, 2008 #906}. The strategy is to strengthen my envisioning ability. Also, I find it hard to focus on something over the long term. So, I reckon that it would be important to start to build my ability to focus, over a long term process. This is also actively linked with the long-term goal part, both of which would be important to my future career, since career is, by definition, long-term. The strategy is to implement my focus ability by using some apps like Podomoro.

### Implications for working in a culturally diverse international/global company
- Reflect on how the strengths and weaknesses you have identified, will either **assist or challenge** you when working in this context

When working in a global company, where the environment is collaborative but complex, towards one end but culturally diverse, it would become a hard task for me to stay on my track of work. The reason is that I am too open to all the possibilities around me, whether in my relaxation or in my work. That, I guess, could explain why I should strengthen my two abilities about long-term goal envisioning and long time focus ability. In an international company, it would be a challenge to stay focus, for me, because there are possibilities! New people, new faces, new ideas (especially when brainstorming), new experiences, and all the other new things... That would be quite a challenge if I could not stay focus.

However, I do think it would be good for me that I do use active listening skills when other people speak to me. I feel caring towards people when they are talking to me. As I have explained, I am open to nearly all the new things, whether they are good or bad, generally. That is because I think those things, good or bad, are experiences. When other people speak to me, they are telling me their stories. What are stories, then? Stories are experiences. I listen to them speaking to me with all my ear, because I live twice a life during that conversation. I live their life and in their world during that time. That would help me understand, from a business point of view, my colleagues and to build rapport as well as collaboration more smoothly {Harms, 2010 #907}. Thank you.